Investors are giving this bull market
the benefit of the doubt.
>> This is starting to weigh on the market,
but we have not [music] quite seen that
typical pullback.
>> Markets have essentially got an
assumption that this could be a quick
war. We don't have a lens on when this
is going to end. Nobody [music] does.
The market right now is overly
complacent in my mind.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. [music]
Coming into Monday, the war enters week
three.
We expect that the global economy is
going to have a big positive shock as
soon as this is over,
>> [music]
>> and we're still being briefed that it
would be 4 to 6 weeks from the
beginning, and that we're ahead of
schedule. One White House advisor
indicating the war could take 4 to 6
weeks following another weekend of
escalating strikes across the Middle
East. The president is scrambling to put
together a coalition to reopen the
strait. That story is where we begin
this hour. President Trump demanding
other nations help to [music] get energy
moving once again.
I'm talking to countries about
policing the
straits. We are demanding that these
countries come in and
protect their own territory against the
place from which they get their energy,
and they should come and they should
help us protect it. Speaking to the
Financial Times, the president saying if
NATO allies don't help soon, the group
will face what he calls a quote very bad
future. The pressure keeps building.
Look, I can't get into [music] President
Trump's head, and I can't get to the
heads of the NATO leaders, but it does
seem like there is a signal in all of
this, which is there's not an easy
off-ramp, and it's not clear [music]
exactly how we're going to get an end
game at this point. The fact that
President Trump is reaching out to other
people after you know, already saying
some pretty mean things to them, and
saying, "Please get on board." gives you
[music] a signal this potentially could
go on for a while. Has the market truly
priced this in?
>> The V Channel over the weekend reporting
the US could announce a coalition as
soon as this week. No idea when that
would actually become operational and
that piece of it is key. What was
interesting it came Sunday night of
course before the oil [music] futures
started trading and equity futures
started trading. What was so interesting
about the Journal report was this line.
They are still discussing it however
whether those operations would begin
before or after hostilities end. Well,
if they begin after hostilities end,
[music] when are we talking about
potentially all this coalition coming
through and naval escort when it comes
to the Strait of Hormuz.
>> [music]
>> When they say potentially end of the
week, next week, two weeks time, it
really is unclear. There's a lot of lack
of clarity in terms of what countries
will be willing to sign up. Japan or
Australia already said no. The European
Union maybe are going to move [music]
their naval escorts they have in the Red
Sea to Strait of Hormuz, but others to
be question mark.
>> This is going to take time and that's
the bottom line. That's why we're
repricing crude further out along the
curve
>> [music]
>> and strategists are starting to adjust
as well. Morgan Stanley with this. Brent
to the second quarter now seen at $110
[music] a barrel. That's up from 80. For
the third quarter they're now seeing it
at $90 a barrel. That's up from 70.
>> [music]
>> That story getting pushed out along the
curve.
>> And I keep thinking about what Steve
Auth over at Federated Hermes told us
which is that he is still constructive
on risk assets up to $90 a barrel, but
should there be an average price of
[music] crude at $90 a barrel for the
average remainder of this year that
starts to curtail growth and materially
changes his outlook to the US equity
market.
>> WTI this morning 99, Brent crude just
short of 105. Coming up this hour Chris
Varvares to kick us with stocks looking
to snap a four-day slide. Norman Roll of
CSIS as the US ramps up the pressure on
allies and Kevin Book of ClearView
Energy Partners as crude continues to
climb. We'll begin this hour with our
top story. Fresh attacks on a major oil
port in the UAE sending crude prices
another leg higher. Our team coverage
starts right now with Bloomberg's
Jamillah Basha
in Dubai. Jamila, welcome to the
program. Escalating strikes over the
weekend, including that strike that we
just outlined. What's the significance
of what we've seen over the past few
days?
Yeah, so there are two strands you need
to think about. One is the US
administration's attempt to reopen the
Strait of Hormuz, as you were just
discussing, uh looking to build together
a coalition of multiple countries to
help uh provide some escorts or naval
escorts uh for ships to traverse the
straits in a safe manner. But already it
seems as though there's skepticism
around this plan. Uh the defense
ministry ministry of Japan, for example,
saying that the hurdle the bar is very
very high for them to get involved. And
of course the main appeal would be to
China, given the lion's share of the oil
the seaborne oil that passes through the
strait does end up in China's hands. But
still they have not officially
commented. So that is one strand of
thinking coming through from the Trump
administration. But then of course the
other uh strand is the ongoing military
operations. And what we saw on Saturday
was a massive escalation with the US
striking Kharg Islands. Now, they did
hit military infrastructure there. They
were not targeting the oil
infrastructure, but this is essentially
the lifeline of the Iranian economy.
About 90% of the Iranian oil that does
get processed passes through the
islands. The fact that the US are now
signaling that they could go one step
further in Kharg Islands marks a very
deep escalation from that from their
standpoint. And the Iranians have not
taken it lightly. They have vowed to
retaliate. They have re-emphasized that
they are not open to a ceasefire, but
also gone one step further this weekend
threatening to strike back at non-US
assets in the region and specifically in
the UAE. They allege, this is what
they're alleging, that the strikes on
Kharg Islands were launched from the
United Arab Emirates. This is uh
something that the UAE have rebuffed. Um
they said it is based on uh senseless
claims. And of course they continue to
act in self-defense, but over the course
of the last few days, we have seen a
meaningful escalation. Earlier this
morning, Iran drones, Iranian drones
struck a fuel depot near Dubai
International Airport. It caused
operations to be suspended temporarily.
And then in the last 24 hours, we have
seen another strike, once again on that
Fujairah key port, very strategic port
in the UAE for two reasons. Number one,
it is outside the Strait of Hormuz, so
it's not actually on the strait.
Um it is one of the largest refueling
ports in the world, but then also it's
been playing a significant role for that
oil land pipeline uh to get Abu Dhabi
oil outside uh the Persian Gulf by not
passing through the Strait of Hormuz.
The fact that they have attempted to
strike at it twice tells you that from
Iran's perspective, they really are
beginning to go after key energy
infrastructure sites and not necessarily
just US assets in the region as well.
Jumana State close. Jumana Bseisu out of
Dubai this morning. The central bankers
might have to edit some of those
statements. The Federal Reserve meeting
on Wednesday, on Thursday, the Bank of
England, the ECB, the BOJ. This is a
major week for central bank speak.
>> And I'm going to argue that the ECB is
going to be a more interesting meeting
than even the Federal Reserve Reserve
because what you're seeing is a bigger
impact on assets in the region, and
frankly, they're between a rock and a
hard place and an even harder place
given the fact that they're facing an
inflation shock and a growth shock at
the same time.
>> That meeting's taking place this coming
Thursday. The view on Wall Street this
morning it looks like this. Chris Verona
of Strategas a bad company writing, we
think we still defer to the uptrend in
equities. Keep an open mind and stay
committed to price first, narrative
second approach. Chris joins us now for
more. Chris, good morning. Thank you.
Price first, narrative second. What is
price saying right now?
Yeah, well listen, I think when you look
at the broader picture here, most global
equity markets are still in uptrends. At
the same time, I'm not convinced we've
really seen a deep flush here yet. And
you kind of look to not necessarily
levels, but what are the internal
characteristics of this market look
like? You know, we're sitting here with
about 40% of the S&P above the 50-day.
We really haven't seen the big surge in
new lows yet. The put-call ratio remains
pretty benign here. So, things I would
want to see to really mark some capitual
to flush, I don't think have necessarily
been checked yet. Now, that can change
quickly. That can happen very quickly. I
want to be open to that happening over
the next week or two, um but we haven't
checked those boxes yet.
>> We've repriced energy. We've repriced
[snorts] rates. Where have we started to
reprice growth?
Well, I think that's the big question
from here forward. And particularly when
you put it in context of the Fed, you
know, it's crazy to me that you see all
these um narratives being written that
central banks are going to tighten into
this. I I think central banks have
learned along the way you don't tighten
into energy shocks.
>> [snorts]
>> Um I think if anything, you know, if
this gets worse than people anticipate,
we should be talking about more cuts,
not less cuts down the line. And kind of
our barometer to really economic growth
or how the market perceives growth is
what is consumer discretionary doing
relative to consumer staples. Now, we've
seen a modest correction in that pair
over the last, you know, 5-6 weeks as
you might expect. It's really essential
to us things like that or banks or
industrials can respond out of this. I
think if there's a bigger problem
developing, we probably still rally
first. We learn about it in the summer
as the real cyclical stuff starts to
roll back over. That's the timeline for
I think how this plays out. Do you think
that it's the same in all different
regions? We were talking about all the
central bank decisions and how it's
crazy to think that anyone would be
hiking into this, and yet people are
expecting the ECB and the Bank of
England to hike into this. Do you think
that that's plausible even as the United
States maybe faces less of that kind of
pressure? Yeah, you know, listen, I I I
think one of the things that maybe was
revealed again to us during the last
couple weeks is markets are ruthlessly
efficient at exposing what the weak
links are. So, you think about the last
2 or 3 weeks as this event has played
out, you know, US 10-year yields, yeah,
they're up, but they're kind of still in
the same range they've been in all year.
What's making new highs? German yields,
French yields.
Um, what's making new lows? The euro.
What's making new highs? Aussie CAD. So,
the market is so ruthlessly efficient at
really exposing where the
vulnerabilities or the weak links lie
and I think the European bond markets
are in a much more fragile spot here
than the US ones. I think the European
currency is in a much more fragile spot.
At the same time, look at how the
commodity exporting FX pairs have all
um really asserted themselves here,
whether it's CAD or Aussie or ZAR or
real. So, this is a ruthlessly efficient
market in exposing kind of where the
fault lines are.
>> If that's the case, going back to what
you guys are talking about, what's the
signal in terms of what they're exposing
in financials, given the fact that
financials are down and down hard,
regional banks down and down hard. Is
that exposing some kind of weakness
there?
>> it's funny, of all the things you just
mentioned and we can talk about, you
know, insurance and private credit and
banks, the regionals are actually what
I'm least worried about right now. The
regional banks are still in uptrends.
They're oversold here. I know they're
down, you know, 10 to 15% across the
board over the last couple weeks, but
they're not bad charts or broken charts.
And you know, even when you look at
stuff like European banks or Japanese
banks, they're correcting here, but
really haven't corrected from big top
formations. I think the bigger question
is when you look at the traditional
money center banks in the US, which
entered the year kind of among the favor
of the consensus, right? Because of
deregulation and all the like, can these
respond here? You have oversold
conditions in Goldman and Morgan Stanley
and Bank of America and Citigroup, can
these actually respond here?
Um, that to me is probably the big
question over the next 4 or 5 6 weeks.
When you look at kind of the landscape
of both geopolitical events and
financial events, what you learn
historically is under-emphasize
geopolitics, over-emphasize financial
events. I'd I'd much more worried if
this is manifesting into the latter.
Chris, why is gold though under $5,000
an ounce? Yeah, you know, this has been
uh something we wrote on
the kind of the weekend that war broke
out 2 weeks ago.
We said, "Be very alert to what
is behaving differently than your own
intuition might suggest." And I think
gold is, you know, number one on that
list. Um if you had just read me the
headlines 2 or 3 weeks ago, you would
have got Okay, gold's going to 6,000.
The fact that it hasn't, I think really
reflects what was blowing off like
conditions from October through January
uh in gold. Frankly, silver acts a lot
worse here. Platinum acts bad, palladium
acts bad. I think these are all going
lower. Come up with whatever narrative
you want. I think the story will reveal
itself in time. Um but I like precious
metals lower here. And, you know, in a
lot of respects, I think this commodity
bull market's diversifying, right? For
much of the last 2 or 3 years, it was
precious metals exclusively. Uh I think
that's less the story uh going forward.
I mean, these grains have all broken
out. I think the industrial metals are
still in better condition than the
precious. So, something there is
evolving. I like precious lower. Chris,
it's good to see you. As always, thanks
for being here. Equity futures right now
in the S&P positive by 0.4%. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara. Hi, John.
President Donald Trump is demanding
other countries join US efforts to
defend the [music] Strait of Hormuz. The
president says the United States is in
talks with about seven countries to help
ships [music] pass safely through the
waterway. The European Union's foreign
policy chief encouraging member states
to redirect the block's Red [music] Sea
naval mission to kick-start that transit
through Hormuz.
Meanwhile, President Trump says he could
delay his planned summit with Chinese
President Xi Jinping later this month if
Beijing does not help unblock the
strait. The president stressing China's
[music] dependence on oil from the
Middle East in an interview with the
Financial Times, Trump also telling the
FT that NATO faces a quote very bad
future if US allies fail to assist.
And the key port of Fujairah in the UAE
was hit by a drone this morning halting
oil exports. It's the latest [music] in
a series of strikes threatening the
country's only export route. Fujairah is
a major hub for both crude and fuels and
has taken on increased importance for
global markets because of its position
outside the Strait of Hormuz, which of
course has been all [music]
but closed since the start of the war 3
weeks ago. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Johanna, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next on the program,
President Trump [music]
demanding a coalition.
So, these countries are about
policing the
streets. So, we are demanding that these
countries come in and
protect their own territory because it
is their territory. Up next, we'll catch
up with Norman Roule of CSIS live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
The war in the Middle East stretching
into a third consecutive week and right
now crude up again for a fourth
consecutive [music] day. Brent crude 104
on Brent this morning up by 9/10 of 1%
on the month so far up by more than 40%
in the equity market. [music]
5% away from all-time highs. That's the
correction so far, 5% on the S&P 500
futures this morning positive by 0.5%.
This from Mislav Matejka this morning
over at JP Morgan. Have we seen
capitulation? We've seen capitulation in
sentiment in our view. That suggests
that if one is selling now, the risk of
being whipsawed is increasing. The sense
of things from JP Morgan this morning.
>> Yeah, and this is the reason why it
hasn't been a deeper correction. [music]
The fact that everyone's waiting for
some sort of statement saying, "Okay, we
found an off-ramp." And then the
rip-roaring rally that has come every
single time we've ever gotten a downturn
going back since the pandemic. Key
question, if there is an off-ramp, will
the [music] rally be sustainable? Or is
there already a hit to growth to your
point earlier?
>> futures this morning up by 0.6, the
Russell of small caps up by 0.5. And
this event is this morning, President
Trump demanding a coalition.
I'm talking to countries about
policing the streets. We are demanding
that these countries come in and
protect their own territory because it
is their territory. It's It's the place
from which they get their energy.
And they should come and they should
help us protect them. So, here's the
latest this morning, the president
ramping up pressure on other countries
demanding support for escorting vessels
through the Strait of Hormuz. Trump
threatening NATO with a quote, "Very bad
future." And to delay his summit with
China President Xi Jinping. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now from
Washington for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the White
House intensified calls this weekend to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz as President
Trump now calls on other countries to
send naval escorts. Data analyzed by
Bloomberg Economics finds that nearly
89% of total oil flows through the
critical waterway do go to countries in
Asia, and that includes 38% of total
flows going to China.
This as President Trump in a post on
Truth Social directly appealed to China
as well as some other countries
including Japan, South Korea, the
France, and the UK to all send ships. As
the Wall Street Journal reported over
the weekend that the Trump
administration could announce as soon as
this week a coalition has been formed to
help secure straight passage even as
publicly many countries are noncommittal
about sending ships until the conflict
resolves. New this morning though, we
did hear from the EU's foreign minister
who is urging member states to redirect
a coalition of ships currently tasked
with securing passage through the Red
Sea to the Strait of Hormuz, though that
plan at this point is far from certain.
President Trump also ramped up threats
in other ways saying that the US will
strike energy infrastructure inside Iran
if disruptions continue. This comes
after the US on Friday confirmed it had
hit military targets on Kharg Island,
Iran's main export port for oil. Now,
John, as these disruptions continue and
we wait for the strait to reopen, the
Trump administration has said that it is
mulling multiple options to help with
supply disruptions in terms of prices
here for consumers in the US. I spoke
with the interior secretary Doug Burgum
on Friday who told me there are a lot of
tools in the toolkit including
potentially intervening in the oil
futures market. Tana Gandel with the
latest out of the White House this
morning. Tana, thank you. To build on
this conversation, Norman Roule, the
former senior US intelligence official
and senior advisor at CSIS. Norman,
welcome back to the program. We've seen
reports over the past few days of moving
additional assets into the region. In
your mind, what does the next phase of
this conflict look like?
Good morning. The United States is not
preparing for a greater involvement that
would lead to boots on the ground, but
the commitment to the United States does
remain focused on a coercive approach to
this. There is no sign of a diplomatic
engagement in the near term. So, you
basically have a situation where the
United States approach is to beat down
Iran's missile and drone capacity to hit
the regime on its
police, its interior forces in the hopes
that this might provoke some sort of
unrest to open the Strait of Hormuz. At
the same time, the regime regime is
trying to outlast this by striking
economic targets that echo into the
world economy to put pressure on the
United States. Each side is trying to
outlast the other. Norm, when it comes
to Kharg Island, how significant was
that hit over the weekend from the
president?
Well, the United States certainly
destroyed every military site on the
on the island and the island is indeed
the primary artery for Iran's outlet of
oil. It has no
secondary outlet of any any consequence.
The port of Jask, which Iran has
attempted to open in the Gulf of Oman,
has a very modest
output, but the port
Kharg Island appears to be operational
for all of its oil
output capacity. I think there are a
couple of ships that burst very quickly
after the US military operation. And I
think that's consistent with what the
president was trying to do. He was
trying to message the Iranians, "Look,
we can touch you here if we wish. We're
going to touch the military elements,
but we can take this further. Why don't
you end the conflict?" I don't think it
changed the Iranian position, but it
certainly sent a message. In terms of
the military strike on Kharg Island,
what does this mean for the operational
capacity of the IRGC?
Well, it doesn't really touch the IRGC's
capacity per se. The IRGC's capacity has
is derived from its missiles, it's
derived from its drones, and it's
derived from its internal military
placements that
suppress the people. So, it's got plenty
of capacity that doesn't rely upon the
the the economy. Doesn't rely upon the
banking
capacity. It's accessible reserves. So,
it's not a money issue that keeps the
IRGC going at present. What role do you
think the ground troops would play? You
mentioned that it does seem like there
could be a preparation to send a special
unit of Marines over potentially even to
Kharg Island. Do you understand or have
an understanding of what that would look
like?
I think that's very unlikely at present.
The
US commander's first option at this
point would not be to create a force
protection problem for himself. His goal
is to create a force protection problem
for the Iranians.
This unit, although capable certainly of
ground operations, probably would have
its first goal to improve counter drone
operations and improve protection
capacity for units. Although some ground
operations could conceivably be part of
its mission. It's it's a relatively
small force for such an such an
activity. Norm, are you seeing an
off-ramp evolving here?
Not at present. The conflict will likely
continue for some weeks
on on each side. But it this said, the
United States and Israel have absolutely
eroded Iran's missile and drone capacity
to a far far greater degree than Iran
ever anticipated. And the Gulf partners,
particularly the United Arab Emirates
and Saudi Arabia, have done an
absolutely spectacular job of
of defense as well as Bahrain, Kuwait,
and the Qataris. And I think you're
seeing that years of investment in of
training, equipment, and the leadership
of these programs has done spectacular
work. And indeed, Fujairah's ability to
put itself back online
demonstrates just the redundancy of the
systems and the leadership of the
Emirati oil program under individuals
such as Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, where it's
really coming to the forefront of
keeping the world's economic programs
going. But Norm, at what point do the
Gulf allies have to go to the White
House and say enough is enough? There's
a lot of reporting over the week about
Mohammed bin Salman urging harsh action
against Iran. But at one point do they
say, "This is just too harsh right now
on our economies?"
I don't see that happening yet. Now,
certainly there's going to be an
economic blow. Remember, these countries
derive their their economic
gains from tourism, from transit. Dubai
Airport was hit today by a drone. That's
a single drone attack. That's obviously
a messaging attack by the Iranians. It's
meant to disrupt, it's not meant to
cause uh massive damage. Uh
uh so that that economic blow is there,
but these these countries at the same
time are uh have shown tremendous
resilience. So you're looking again at
going to Abu Dhabi and Dubai and and
Saudi Arabia, uh they've shown
tremendous capacity to keep their
economies going during all of this. Uh
expatriates are generally quite
comfortable in these environments by
many many reports. I know him. Just
going to say it. Thanks for making time
for us this morning. Like a busy
morning. Norman Roule there of CSIS. As
we're conducting that conversation, just
getting some headlines from the Iranian
Foreign Minister conducting a news
conference, a press conference just
moments ago. The war must end it away
that it doesn't repeat. That headline
crossing just moments ago. The war must
end it away so that it doesn't repeat.
Right, which is deterrence, which is the
reason why there is this escalating
level of attacks not just on US bases,
but also on infrastructure in the
region.
>> about crude and energy infrastructure in
just a moment. We'll catch up with Kevin
Book of Clearview Energy Partners with
crude pushing higher. Plus you're higher
back with your morning movers. Matter,
this is one to watch in the pre-market.
The stock is higher by almost 3%.
Reports over the weekend of widespread
layoffs. More still to come on that
story in just a moment. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Stocks down for four consecutive days
coming into Monday this morning bouncing
back by just 6/10 of 1% on the S&P 500.
On the Nasdaq up by 3/4 of 1%. A
four-day losing streak on the equity
market. A four-day winning streak on
Brent crude. Brent looks like this so
far this morning. Trimming gains. Brent
at the moment up a third of 1%. 103.43.
What a move so far this month. [music]
And we're only halfway through this
month. A 40% move on crude. Brent crude
just about holding on to triple digits.
[music] In the bond market, twos, tens,
30s. Last month, the 10-year bond yield
was down 30 basis points. This month,
it's up about 30 basis [music] points.
We've been for quite a ride over the
past 2 months. 425 on tens this morning
going into the Fed this coming
Wednesday.
>> Yeah, and it was just clear as mud in
terms of how they're exactly going to
signal this. Clearly in the short term,
it's going to be an inflationary
pressure, but as you mentioned before,
at what point does it become a drag on
growth given the [music] fact that it's
going to eat into consumer discretionary
accounts. I do think this is interesting
from Deutsche Bank economic economists
saying that only a sustained $150 per
barrel [music] would eliminate the
benefit that a lot of consumers are
getting from the one big beautiful bill.
So, there is a threshold that people are
watching for that pain.
>> Two-year bond yields are around 370, 369
this morning declining by two [music]
basis points. Going into the Fed meeting
on Wednesday, two-year bond yields near
the highest since last summer. 3 hours
away from the opening bell, let's get
you some morning movers, some single
names. Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara. Hi,
John. Meta [music] is outperforming the
Mag 7 up 2.8% on a report by Reuters
that it could cut 20% of [music] its
workforce, which could be 16,000
of its 79,000 employees. The move, of
course, comes as it tries to offset that
massive AI spending it's been making and
could be a sign that AI is delivering
meaningful productivity gains as we
heard from Block last month. Moving on
to Sable Offshore, they those shares
rallying uh nearly 7% in the premarket
as the company gets the green light by
the Trump administration to restart oil
production off the California coast
despite opposition from regulators. We
know that this is a fight [music]
between the White House and the and
California that has been brewing for
months, but with oil prices surging due
to the Iran conflict, [music]
you can see how the administration is
moving more aggressively to bring uh
more US oil supply [music]
to the market. And we end on private
credit with Blue Owl shares rising
nearly 1% up for a second straight day,
but it is a meager rise compared to the
sell-off we've seen in this name down
more than 40% year-to-date as investors
continue to worry about [music] rising
defaults, their software holdings, and
redemption requests all over the private
credit sector. [music] John. Yohai,
thank you. Thanks for the update. More
from Yohai later this hour. On our
rundown this morning, President Donald
Trump seeking support from several
countries to secure energy flows through
the Strait of Hormuz. Trump also telling
the Financial Times that NATO faces a
quote very bad future if the alliance
doesn't join the war effort against
Iran. Elsewhere, the UAE's Fujairah port
hit by another drone attack. Oil loading
operations at the trading hub have been
suspended while the damage is being
assessed. The port is the UAE's only
export route outside the Strait of
Hormuz. And finally, President Donald
Trump threatening to delay his summit
with the Chinese leader Xi Jinping. The
Financial Times reporting the president
may postpone his planned trip to Beijing
if China does not help secure the Strait
of Hormuz. A lot of people are wondering
how long this would take given the
rising pressures on all sides. How much
is this President Trump trying to get
leverage for one of the key importers of
Iranian crude and what kind of incentive
does China have to get on board and
pressure Iran given the fact that
they're still getting shipments of that
Iranian oil. There is a feeling though
that maybe, at least according to some
reports, China's getting a little bit
annoyed with some of the practices of
Iran. So maybe there can be some
leverage, but this does seem to be an
open question. Some vessels are getting
through. You need a magnifying glass,
but some vessels are getting through and
it depends on what flag is on top of
that vessel. This hasn't been talked
about much this morning, but it was
talked about a lot going into the
weekend. This from the Financial Times.
The European countries, including
France, had open talks with Tehran
seeking to negotiate a deal to guarantee
safe passage. Now, ultimately, that
story has gone nowhere over the past few
days, but some comments from India just
moments ago kind of speak into the same
thing at the moment.
>> India is saying that they are in talks
with Iran. We have seen some Indian
vessels get through, especially when it
comes to liquefied petroleum gas. 90% of
India's imports of that for cooking oil
relies on going through the Middle East
and the Strait of Hormuz. What India is
saying right now is that Iran didn't ask
anything to give ships safe passage, but
this is what the United States doesn't
want. They don't want individual
countries going to Iran one-on-one. They
want this to be a coalition. And what
this proves right now is that the Strait
is actually not closed. The Strait is
controlled and it's controlled by the
regime. We've got a logistics problem,
which is causing a production problem,
and the president is aggressively trying
to solve a logistics problem of his own
making right now. And that's the reason
why it's kind of difficult to get
coalition allies coalition on board
quickly after the fact without having
communicated earlier. And the reason why
Iran is really taking the step to
negotiate individually with the
companies. But whether or not there was
a lot of talk about the fact that Trump
named China in a Truth Social post as
one of these countries that should come
to help. Whether or not China likes it
or not, they're involved. 90% of Iranian
exports go to China. The rest go to
Syria and some other countries. But this
is important for China and higher prices
are also important for China. So at some
point, China's going to have to get
involved.
>> And we're certainly getting high prices.
Crude holding on to triple digits this
morning. The average price for a gallon
of regular gasoline helping 370
following fresh attacks in the Gulf. The
US Energy Secretary Chris Rice saying
the White House's strategy remains on
track.
We knew there'd be a temporary
interruption of flows out of the Straits
of Hormuz. This is short-term pain to
get through to a much better place where
the Middle East can no longer be held
hostage by the one rogue nation in
in Iran. The conflict will come to the
end in the next few weeks and we'll see
a rebound in supplies and a pushing down
of prices. The US demanding allies
support and projecting vessels through
the Strait of Hormuz after striking
Iran's main export hub. Kevin Burke of
Clearview Energy Partners writing if
nothing changes, prices look poised to
continue rising until they balance
supply by destroying demand. Kevin joins
us now for more. Kevin, welcome to the
program. I want to pick up on that line
that came from the energy secretary just
moments ago. That ultimately we'll see a
rebound in supplies and will push down
prices once again. If the war ended
right now, this second, the headline
crossed, how much damage has already
been done and how long would it take to
recover?
There's two ways to look about that and
look at that, Jonathan. Good morning and
thanks for having me. The first is that
there are forward positioned inventories
that are being drawn but not exhausted
and strategic barrels yet to follow. So,
if we stopped today and traders
optimistically look forward, they might
say, "Well, look, it's not so bad. It's
a blip." The other side of that though
is that we don't know how much damage
has been done to all the facilities that
have been hit directly or incidentally
and even the ones that shut down
gracefully need weeks to restart
properly. So, there's still latency yet
to come. And then on that second leg,
that less optimistic leg, Jonathan,
there's the question of whether or not
the war takes a leg up in an escalatory
pathway expanding into other countries
directly engaging Iran, for example.
Kevin, when it comes to timelines, Total
Energy also this morning says production
has been shut down or is in the process
of shutting down in Qatar, Iraq, UAE
when it comes to offshore. That's one
part of it. Then there's the opening of
the Strait. What do you think is harder
for these companies that are involved,
trying to get through their vessels to
the Strait of Hormuz or when they have
to restart some of this production that
they're shutting in?
Well, I think most executives you talk
to will emphasize the importance of
security for their personnel. So, the
risks don't have to be very large to
stop those vessels from going through.
As far as the operational side of the
story, these are the, you know, these
companies are world-class. They know how
to operate their fields, but that's kind
of the point I made in the in the first
response to Jonathan. It's that they're
not going to rush to turn things back on
immediately. You have to be careful. You
have to you have to do this deliberately
and very properly engineer to bring
production back online. When it comes to
the United States and gasoline prices,
we've already seen about 70 cents before
the war, how how much higher these
gasoline prices are. At what point do
you think the US administration is going
to go back into the toolbox and
potentially use some other levers? What
point and what line in the sand is that
for a gallon of gasoline?
Well, I can't give you a per gallon
gasoline price that draws the alarm, but
there are certainly psychological levels
that one sees four, five, above five.
Setting an all-time record, I think,
produces some something like all-time
intervention. Uh but here's what you
know, when we look at it economically
and politically, we get different
answers. Economically, as a share of
disposable personal income per capita,
actually we're not even close to where
we were at the height of the
post-Ukraine invasion peak in June of
2022, which is about 3.6% of average
national per capita DPI going to
gasoline. Uh now we're a little above
two, maybe two and a quarter percent,
depending on where prices settle. Uh but
that's cold comfort to voters who come
into contact with the price on a regular
basis, and so the politics of this
happen much faster and at a much lower
threshold.
Kevin, there's been some discussion
about the US Treasury getting involved
with oil futures, and a couple of
traders have been pointing out that the
cost of physical crude is much higher
than the cost of oil futures, and I was
wondering why that discrepancy has
widened out. Do you think there already
is some activity, government activity,
in the futures market?
Theory and reality tend to converge at
settlement. So, there have been a lot of
academic studies about how spot prices
and future prices can diverge until they
don't. As far as the financial
engineering of missing molecules, uh
there are some challenges to that. Uh
you have to ask what that means. What
are we going to do? If we buy forward
contracts to try to provide a virtual
reserve, as has been suggested in some
of what we've seen reported, uh then
what happens if we're still short when
those barrels are due for delivery? Uh
we tighten inventories, and that might
get priced through. What are What are
the impacts of that? Do we move the
intercept, or do we end up moving the
forward months higher when there's
currently a steep decline, which Kevin
Hassett from the National Economic
Council pointed out yesterday on TV? How
much of an off-ramp is using the Red
Sea? We've heard from Saudi Arabia in
particular possibly diverting more
shipments through that passage. Do you
see that as a viable off-ramp, or is
that just sort of out of the frying pan
into the fire?
Well, it raises another risk
consideration, which is whether or not
the Houthis would be activated either
independently or in conjunction with
Iran to try to stop those cargoes from
moving. Right now, it's a it's a
meaningful off-ramp. Like, if we look at
the significance of the 5 to 7 million
barrels per day of headroom east-west to
to Yanbu on on the Red Sea, that's a
that's a pretty significant share of
what Saudi Arabia otherwise could put
out, and keeps us from losing almost all
of the production that would come out of
the Gulf. On the other hand, that's a
big risk. With cinemas trouble the
Houthis can cause that, that's for sure.
Over the last few years, Kevin
appreciate your time, sir. Kevin Buck
there of ClearView Energy Partners on
the commodity market. Some headlines
crossed on the Bloomberg terminal as
we've been having this conversation.
It's been a busy morning already. The
president is putting tremendous pressure
or attempting to put tremendous pressure
on NATO allies to get involved and help
open the Strait of Hormuz. Had some
pushback from Germany and the UK also
distancing itself from this war with
Iran. The German government saying
moments ago the Iran war is unrelated to
NATO. The British Prime Minister Sir
Keir Starmer speaking just moments ago
also and saying the following, we will
not be drawn into the wider war in Iran.
But also at the same time the UK says we
have to open up the Strait of Hormuz.
That is not a simple task. So, they want
to have it both ways, and how are they
communicating to their electorate, which
many feel like they should be taking a
stronger stance against the US,
especially when it comes to the fact
that they've been dealing with this
administration when it comes to trade
tariffs. The fact of the matter is this
is going to hurt Europe more when it
comes to energy supplies than is the
United States. Whether they like it or
not, they might have to get on board
this coalition.
>> This
>> headline, Lisa, from the British Prime
Minister, the cost of living is foremost
in my mind. If you've been tracking the
bond market in the UK, we've had a 50
basis point move, 50 plus, over the last
month alone. And that's just this month,
in March. That's a couple of weeks plus
one. A 50 basis point move. I'm so glad
you picked up on that. Starmer here,
Starmer also saying that they're taking
five steps to tackle cost of living. A
real question of the policy response to
try to stave off some sort of financial
crisis for individuals, especially after
they've already been facing really
escalating costs. How much is that one
of the drivers of the long end of the
yield curve over in Europe? As you
potentially could see, the fiscal budget
going increasingly toward those cost of
living concerns.
>> getting drawn into address that problem.
We'll get you some details on that in
just a moment. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide this morning. With
your Bloomberg Brief, Yahaira has more.
Hi Yahaira. Hi John.
CEOs of major US airlines are urging
Congress to end a 29-day partial
government shutdown that has forced
50,000 [music] airport security officers
to work without pay. The shutdown
already disrupting travel at [music]
some major airports as airlines are
expecting a record-breaking spring
travel period.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump
blasting Fed chair Jay Powell on social
media once again, posting, "Courts treat
Republicans so unfairly, always seeming
to protect those who should not be
protected. [music] How is too late
Powell not even allowed to be
investigated for the horrible job he
does." The post coming after a federal
judge quashed subpoenas the DOJ issued
against Powell.
And at the Oscars, one battle after
another, one Best [music] Picture, and
Paul Thomas Anderson took home Best
Director. Michael B. Jordan won Best
Actor for Sinners, and Jessie Buckley
took home the trophy for Best Actress
[music] for Hamnet. K-pop Demon Hunters
won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature
Film and Original Song, "Golden." That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yahaira,
thank you. [music] Thanks for the
update. More from Yahaira in the next
hour. Up next on the program, Cloud Inc.
The outlook.
We think the Fed is on hold
indefinitely. We're now facing what is
potentially another prolonged period of
elevated inflation coming out of the oil
shock. And we think at this meeting
there's an under-appreciated risk the
Fed turns a little bit hawkish. The Fed
[music] decision two days away. Jeff
Lacker of Neuberger Berman joins us next
from New York City. This is Bloomberg.
Live from New York City this [music]
morning. Good morning and welcome back.
Equity futures shaping up as follows on
the S&P 500 following a four-day losing
streak. The S&P this morning higher by
0.6 on the Nasdaq up by 3/4 of 1%.
Setting the tone over the [music] last
past few weeks, this move right here.
40% plus move on Brent so far this
month. Brent crude this morning behaving
itself briefly, 103.11 and just [music]
about unchanged on the session. The
world's reacting. The president putting
tons of pressure on NATO allies to get
involved. Germany pushing back saying
basically it's not our war. And they
won't get be [music] getting involved in
this war in the Middle East.
>> Yeah, just one of a number of countries
that have really distanced themselves.
Japan also saying that they're not going
to get involved in this even [music]
though a significant part of the energy
that they receive comes from this area.
And it's not just crude, it's also
liquefied natural gas. There are a whole
host of other resources as well. So, how
long they can say they're going to
remain on the sidelines while supporting
some of their economies does remain to
be seen.
>> Some of these European countries don't
have [music] the fiscal space to get
involved. That's problem one. And
problem two, they've got to address
problems at home. And Sir Keir Starmer
speaking just moments ago addressing the
British public pledging to help them
with heating costs. And this is going to
become a bigger and bigger issue in the
months [music] to come.
>> Yeah, saying that they're going to
support uh heating costs with some 57
million pounds of extra support. Where
is that going to come from? Over to you,
Bank of England. How are you going to
respond to that? Over to you, ECB, where
you've got a 10-year yield over [music]
in France at the highest level since
2011. How much fiscal headroom is there
given all of the other pledges they've
already put out?
>> Major moving yields over the past few
weeks. 50 [music] basis points plus on
twos and on 10s. Under Savannah's this
morning, clouding the outlook.
We think the Fed is on hold
indefinitely. We're now facing what is
potentially another prolonged period of
elevated inflation coming out of the oil
shock.
>> [music]
>> The standard textbook in central banking
is that if inflation expectations are
well anchored, you ignore this inflation
and you focus [music] on the labor
market, focus on growth. But, it's not
clear that they can do that here. And we
think at this meeting there's an
underappreciated risk the Fed turns a
little bit hawkish. So, here's the
latest this morning. Policy makers
around the world weighing inflationary
pressures from the Iran war out of a
busy week of central bank rate
decisions. Jeff Blaiseck of Neuberger
Berman writes in the following, "We are
emphasizing the growth hit more than the
inflation impact from oil and
commodities. The main thing will be how
the Fed thinks about the tradeoffs."
Jeff joins us now for more. Jeff, good
morning. Good to see you. Good morning.
Thanks for dropping by. Two days away
from a Fed decision this coming
Wednesday. The meeting begins tomorrow,
a two-day meeting. What do you expect to
happen, expect to see in a few days'
time? We expect them to hold, but I
think the commentary is going to be
really important for us to listen to.
That balance that you just highlighted,
the growth versus the inflation. To us,
it would not be appropriate to address a
supply shock in terms of energy costs
with policy increases. So, we would
expect the Fed to try to really allow
itself flexibility though in its
rhetoric this Unfortunately for this
Federal Reserve, they have to put out
some forecasts as well. There are some
people out there believing that maybe
there's got a stagflationary twist to
some of these forecasts. A revision down
to growth, a revision higher for
inflation. Do you expect to see the same
thing? We'd consider it a very
short-term stagflationary risk. I mean,
I don't necessarily think that we would
project out meaningful core inflation
increases one to two years in the
future. In fact, when we look at
inflation break-evens of the TIPS
markets, we're not yet seeing it
permeate further out the curve, but it's
certainly a very real-time risk in the
next few months. There is a sense though
that the Fed is not going to have the
fiscal or the the headroom right now to
cut rates materially in the rest of
2026. Do you think there are risk assets
that haven't fully priced in that
reality of potentially lower rates
ahead? Well, I do think that if the rate
market, which has been perplexing to us,
I mean, you mentioned earlier the Bank
of England, the rate increases, ECB.
We've seen 50 to 75 basis points on the
front end of the curves that are
suggesting hikes overseas and far less
cuts in the US.
If that is true and that is what policy
makers decide, then equities
categorically have not priced that
adequately. And so, I do think it's a
bit of a juxtaposition we've seen and a
process of mindset. But, we don't expect
this to be We know we we are now airing
on the side of adding duration and being
a little more dovish in posture both in
multi-asset and our fixed-income
portfolios. Does that mean that you
think it's going to be an even bigger
hit to growth or do you think that
people are under appreciating the
ability of central bankers to look
through an oil price price shock? I
think look through is the key. So, right
now, year-end, so the front month is
very volatile, it's inverted with
backwardation, we get all of that. But,
right now the market is suggesting we
might be at $75 oil at year-end. That's
pretty palatable, that's manageable.
It's like a 10 or 15 per barrel increase
of geopolitical premium, which seems
fair. But, you're talking about a
manageable hit to GDP. Maybe we revise
downward. Our our expectations coming in
were 2.5, maybe that takes us to 2%.
That's still very well above trend. What
would change your outlook? I mean, you
think we would be seeing a bigger hit to
growth and potentially some correction
in the equity market?
>> By far, what changes our outlook is
prolonged oil above 100 for not weeks,
but months and maybe going into the
year-end. That's where we would suggest
that consumer spending is probably going
to get hit pretty hard and it would risk
a recessionary type backdrop. Again
though, if that ends up being what
happens, our pro duration stance
benefits because we would see rates
respond downward
due to the growth outlook.
>> Do you think the Fed could cut in that
environment though? Above 100 for
months? Well, you know, I think what
what you end up risking in that
scenario, which is not our base case and
this is a severe outlook that we're
theorizing about, but basically what
would happen is you would have the
double whammy much like 2007. Remember
crude oil was at 140, banks were
tightening and then in short order less
than 12 months later they were
dramatically easing because of what
happened in that whipsaw. You've said it
a few times now, bonds are a buy here.
Is that just the US or is that the
international bond market too? No, if
anything we think it's more of a buy
outside the US.
>> Whereabouts? Uh well, we like Europe. We
like core Europe because we think that
the idea that there are two hikes priced
in this year is not appropriate. Now, we
do worry when you see some of the ECB
members talking and they suggest they
might have this bias. And by the way,
they're dealing with the pressures that
you all were just talking about.
Politicians are trying to come up with
fiscal support to alleviate the consumer
pressure. The central banks are a bit
nervous about all that. It makes sense.
We just think that when this war settles
down and gets contained, the central
banks are not going to have to be this
hawkish.
>> You know what the pushback would be
though Jeff is that the ECB has done it
before that it in 2009 under Trichet
they hiked with an inflation shock, with
a crude price move, not quite like the
one we've got at the moment. I think it
was closer to 140 than it was 100. And
for the Brits right now, we just had the
conversation. You suggested it. The
Brits are talking about helping
consumers at a time when they have
limited fiscal space to do so. That
would be the pushback this morning. How
would you counter it?
>> That's a fair pushback. I would call it
the Groundhog Day scenario. Here we are
again. Uh you know, all we can do is
express our views publicly, express our
views in duration with the comfort, but
if they made a policy error like that,
we probably would start to pivot more
toward the long end because we would see
inverted curves. The long end would say,
"Look, you guys are not getting this
right."
>> be another reason to buy bonds. Correct.
>> Jeff, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Jeff Lacker there of Neuberger
Berman, thoughtful on fixed income and
the opportunity that's opened up now in
the bond market to buy. Yeah, and he's
not alone. There are a number of people
are saying that ultimately this is a
stagflationary shock. And typically if
you have a short-term pop in oil prices,
that reduces growth of the long term and
it should be a buying opportunity for
bonds in the long term, which is not
what you're seeing. And that has been
sort of the conundrum. Is this because
of the fiscal potential uh to really uh
increase deficits or is this people
believing that you can withstand it
because of the strength in the economy
and it's ultimately inflationary? Well,
his answer, just buy.
>> You would hope the ECB has learned from
its mistakes back in 2008, but then one
official speaking in just the past week
talking up the prospect of acting before
people think. You know, one commentary
one commentary that I was reading said
that not only is the ECB dealing with a
fiscal shock, not only are they dealing
with an oil price shock, but they're
dealing with fragmentation as well. So,
they also have to deal with some sort of
splitting and splintering of some of
their base groups in terms of their
approach and their and their opinions.
>> So, as they try to whip it in, let's set
the scene for you. Crude still around
triple digits on Brent, WTI at 97. The
president pushing allies to step in and
help him reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
And allies so far this morning, the UK
and Germany pushing back. Pushing back,
throwing some cold water on this idea
that they want to get involved in what
is going on in Iran and the Strait of
Hormuz. What's interesting though is the
EU's foreign policy chief did talk about
the fact that member states potentially
could be moving the Red Sea naval
mission they have right now to protect
cargo in the Red Sea that's been going
on for months. Maybe they can move that
to the Strait of Hormuz. Politically
though, this is going to be incredibly
challenging for some of these European
countries, not to mention the fact that
Australia, Japan have already come out
and said the threshold is very high for
us to do so. It's a very fast-moving
financial market, that's for sure. It's
fluid. I think it's fair to say. Crude
rolling over just briefly, and as it
does, equities break out to session
highs up 3/4 of 1% on the S&P 500. Up
next we'll catch up with Steven Parker
of JP Morgan, Hannah Treece of Beta
Partners, Francisco Blanch of Bank of
America, and Vishal Khanduja [music]
of Morgan Stanley. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is up next.
This is clearly a massive shock for now.
People see the shock, they think the US
economy is well positioned to manage it.
>> The longer it goes on, the higher the
risk that this one-time price impulse
gets kind of normalized. Globally, this
is more of a risk to growth rather than
sign of some sort of recession.
>> For now, the Fed is going to be
cautious. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne-Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second [music]
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now and your scores the price
action looks like this. Equity futures,
after declining for four consecutive
sessions on the S&P, [music] we bounce
by 3/4 of 1% on the Nasdaq up by 0.9. In
the commodity market, a 40% plus move on
the month in crude. We pull back just a
third of 1%. Brent at 102.85.
Going into this this week, a Federal
Reserve meeting two days away. That
decision just around a corner. On deck
also, the ECB, the Bank of England, and
the BOJ. Yeah, and arguably some of the
other meetings other than the Fed could
be more interesting because the strain
that they're feeling is coming on two
different [music] sides. On one hand,
they have a bigger energy shock than the
United States does. On the other hand,
there is even more pressure coming from
different governments to pay for some of
the offsets that a lot of consumers will
need in order to cope with the cost of
living hit that they [music] are
feeling. We saw that this morning from
the United Kingdom. You put all this
together, how does the ECB, how does the
Bank of England respond? Do they even
entertain hiking rates? [music]
>> how long this goes on for. How many
times have you heard that over the past
2 weeks? It depends how long this goes
on for. Crude higher over the past 2
weeks, and these central banks might
need to respond sometime soon
>> [music]
>> with language or with action. And let's
hope it's not with action because that
could be a major policy mistake. This is
the headline we're going to get in the
UK at the moment on a coalition coming
together to do something about reopening
the Strait of Hormuz, which many people
in the commodity market describe as
somewhat as an impossible task at the
moment. Hormuz defense needs as many
partners as possible. The words of the
British Prime Minister just moments ago.
>> But no one is running. No one is running
to make sure that their naval is out
there in front going through the Strait
of Hormuz in this coalition that the
president is talking about. Japan,
Australia already said we're not going
to do it. China has yet to respond. What
you have from the European Union is this
discussion potentially of their naval
fleet they have in the Red Sea moving
[music] to the Strait of Hormuz. But
then when you look to the individual
leaders like Keir Starmer, like
Frederick Merz, they're basically saying
not so fast. They don't want to touch
this right now with a 10-ft pole.
>> You break it, you own it. Fix it. Seems
to be the response from some NATO allies
at the moment whether they feel the
repercussions of it or not. So,
Luxembourg's foreign minister had this
to say. Blackmail is not what I wish
for. Then you had this UK official
saying, "It's also important to remember
that we have not sought to be a
protagonist in this war." So, definitely
a feeling of not wanting to get
involved.
>> an important comment this morning comes
from the Iranian foreign minister. The
reason we say we do not want to
cease-fire is not because we are seeking
war, but because this time this war must
end in such a way that our enemies never
again think of repeating these attacks.
When analysts come on and continue to
say that their worst-case scenario is
that this is prolonged, that is
basically the base case [music] for
people that are living in the region and
are touching this story every single
day. Because of this reason right now,
they took out the Ayatollah, they took
out the top brass, they went after Kharg
Island. Right now, it doesn't seem like
the Iranians feel like the US has
suffered [music] enough. Market
participants called it a risk. The
Iranians called it a goal. Right now,
Brent crude around triple digits, Brent
at 103, and just about unchanged on the
session. Coming up this hour, Stephen
Parker of JP Morgan Private Bank as
crude adds to recent gains. Henrietta
Treyz of Evitar Partners as President
Trump demands support in the Strait of
Hormuz, and Francisco Blanch of Bank of
America with the White House forecasting
a dip in energy costs. We begin this
hour with stocks pushing higher on the
S&P 500 by about 7/10 of 1%. Stephen
Parker of JP Morgan Private Bank with a
7,400 to 7,600 year-end S&P target, and
writing the following, "We've not
changed our base case forecast for
growth, but acknowledge increasing
downside risk the longer energy prices
remain elevated." Stephen joins us now
for more. Stephen, good morning.
Morning. Good to see you. So, let's talk
about what we've seen so far. 5% move on
stocks,
60 basis points of widening on
high-yield spreads from the tights of
the year so far. Is that a sign of
resilience or complacency?
You know, I do think the markets are
probably a bit complacent given the move
that we've seen in energy markets. We've
always said to clients that when it
comes to geopolitics, geopolitics rarely
have long-term impacts on markets, but
we have to acknowledge that particularly
when energy is at the center of the
storm here, they can certainly have a
bigger impact on on markets in the short
term. You mentioned the the pullback
that we've seen in the US. We've seen a
bigger impact in international markets,
particularly in places like Europe and
Asia, who are more exposed and more at
risk to these higher prices, but there
does seem to be a bit of complacency in
markets in general.
>> Where do you see that complacency
concentrated at the moment? Well, I
think that
investors are just looking at the fact
that the expectations for energy prices
are to recover and be back around $80 in
the not-too-distant future.
And in that sort of world, then we can
get back to the fundamental story around
US equity markets and double-digit
earnings growth, which is what we
expect. The challenge is if we end up in
a situation where we're looking at
triple-digit oil, not just for the next
month or two, but for the next three to
six months, then you have to start
asking yourself about the outlook for
growth and the outlook for inflation.
Are people more accurately pricing in
that perspective internationally? You
talked about the hit to international
markets. Well, I think you're seeing two
things. One, places like Europe and Asia
are more exposed to higher prices in the
near term and the risks of those prices
remaining higher are there for a longer
time period. The US is buffered by a
greater sense of energy independence. I
think you're also seeing a bit of a
flight to safety, a flight to quality.
You're seeing it in the rally in the
dollar. You're also seeing it in the
recent outperformance of tech. Not too
long ago, we were talking about tech
being under pressure, the rotation into
more cyclical parts of the market. I
think investors are looking at this
environment and saying the long-term
structural fundamentals, the earnings
growth, the upgrades that we're seeing
in the tech sector, and that's bringing
money back into the US and supporting US
equity markets.
>> Do you think this has materially shifted
the narrative that took hold in the
first two months of the year, which is
diversify outside of the United States,
diversify outside of tech? Has that
pulled it full circle and actually
caused the leadership to come from the
United States and from big tech? I think
perhaps in the near term, but I do think
that longer term there is still that
diversification story. In particular, we
think there are interesting
opportunities in emerging markets who
have been hit the hardest in this recent
move higher in oil prices, but still
there's a really interesting story,
particularly in Asia, around the tech
story there, the hardware sector. We've
seen massive earnings upgrades in places
like Taiwan, Korea, India. We think that
story continues, and we're looking to
build a shopping list with our clients
to say, "If this volatility continues,
what are we thinking about adding?"
Emerging markets would be squarely in
that bucket.
>> At the top of the shopping list over at
Neuberger Berman, just on the program
moments ago, the bond market. They
believe all roads lead to lower bond
yields here. Even if you fix this crisis
over in the Middle East, lower bond
yields. If you don't, lower bond yields.
Because if you don't, ultimately, it's
going to hit growth, and yields at the
long end of the curve are going to roll
over. Is there an opening here in the
bond market? Yeah, our view of our rates
is that we're probably more range-bound.
We came into this year a little bit more
conservative than the market. We thought
we would see one cut from the Fed.
That's still our base case view. The
challenge is going to be this push and
pull between potential for lower growth
and potential for higher inflation.
That's why it's going to be interesting
to listen to what we hear from the Fed
this week as they try to set the
narrative, as they try to guide markets
in terms of which one they're going to
prioritize. I still think that there's
room potentially for for another cut,
but we don't think necessarily that
rates are going to move meaningfully
lower from here.
>> How do they guide the market in this
moment when in the past when we saw
energy price spikes, they just called it
transitory and they were wrong?
>> Yeah.
Well, I think what's going to be
interesting is to listen to their
comments on not just energy markets cuz
I think those are more difficult to
prognosticate not just for us, but also
for the Fed. I think it's going to be
interesting to listen to what they say
about labor markets. Obviously, recent
data has been a bit weaker than what we
would like to to see. The question's
going to be about not just sort of the
demand for labor, but the supply of
labor. And if they indicate that that is
front and foremost, you know, the top of
their mind, that could indicate that
they're willing to let inflation run a
little bit hotter at the expense of
supporting labor markets.
>> semiconductors, some of these companies
you like. Have you thought about other
issues with the Strait of Hormuz besides
oil? Helium. A third of global helium
goes to Strait of Hormuz. That is needed
when you make semiconductors. Yeah, I
mean, what we're seeing, yeah, everyone
is looking at the first-order effects,
which is higher energy prices, higher
gasoline prices. But as you as you
pointed out, Emily, there are long-term
meaningful impacts around supply chains,
broadly speaking, in different
industries around the world. And the
challenge is if these things get turned
off, they don't just get turned on with
a with a flip of the switch. One of the
themes that we've been talking about a
lot with clients is this idea of the
shift from globalization to global
fragmentation. And the idea that
countries and companies are going to be
more concerned about
supply chain resiliency rather than
supply chain efficiency. And so, one of
the areas of focus has been on this idea
of national champions and strategic
industries as the US, as Europe, as Asia
look to develop, you know, these
national champion companies in places
like power and infrastructure, security
and defense, and technology. I going to
ask you a really unfair question, so
brace yourself and forgive me. Forgive
me for doing this. But as I sit here and
listen to this and you bring up chips
and we're talking about geopolitics, a
lot of this is scenario analysis, but I
think it's a scenario that we need to
explore. How would you react if China
used this as an opportunity to go after
Taiwan?
I I think that that question is coming
up more and more in our conversations.
>> What do you say back to clients? You I
think we have to acknowledge that it is
a significant risk and I think the
markets would react more aggressively to
that type of news even than what we're
seeing as it relates to to energy
prices. Um I do think at the end of the
day there is still, you know, an
economic agreement amongst the the world
and the impact that might have on the
economy probably reduces some of the the
the risk there, but it's a risk that we
need to acknowledge. And at the end of
the day, when it comes to geopolitics,
we don't manage portfolios around tail
risk scenarios.
>> In the long run, that's that's a losing
strategy. It's why we lean into
diversification. It's why we think about
global investing, stocks and bonds, but
also diversifiers in a portfolio related
to to higher inflation, which has been
top of mind for our clients.
>> the risk. It's because those supply
chains aren't diversified enough. Right
now, Stephen, it's good to see you.
Thanks for being here. Stephen Parker
there of JP Morgan Private Bank. It's a
conversation coming up with clients.
It's a conversation I'm hearing as well
over the weekend.
>> Yeah, especially because there were
Chinese ships that were getting close
and doing some war exercises near Taiwan
according to a number of reports. There
was a question of whether this was
actually going to come to pass. As I
listen to this, I do wonder how you can
get the confidence to lend longer term
to companies. If you're dealing with
this number of variables, and this
number of potential tail risks, wouldn't
you charge a higher premium? This sort
of speaks to the question of at what
point do you have to start seeing a risk
premium baked into credit markets, not
only commodities markets, to reflect
some of these potential scenarios?
>> It's a great point, and for a lot of
people, it feels very existential
because while the US is focused, and
their navy is focused on the Middle
East, China right now, potentially,
could make a move with the US unable to
respond.
>> Now, Xi Jinping has to weigh other
things the president could do, and some
of them could be, you know, the nuclear
option, literally a nuclear option. But,
this is something that continues to come
up, and our stock market is 90% tethered
to Taiwan because of how important
hyperscalers and these tech companies
are to our S&P 500.
>> Probably not the conversation you wanted
to hear this morning, so again, forgive
me. Equity futures on the S&P positive
by 0.7% with an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara. Hi, John.
The key ports of Fujairah in the UAE was
hit by a drone this morning, halting oil
exports. It's the latest in a series of
strikes threatening the country's only
export route. Fujairah is a major hub
for both crude and fuels. It has It has
taken on increased importance for global
markets because of its position outside
[music]
the Strait of Hormuz.
US allies responding to President
Trump's calls to form a coalition to
support safe passage through the Strait
of Hormuz. UK Prime Minister Keir
Starmer saying efforts to reopen the
strait won't come [music] as a NATO
mission, but the UK will work with
partners on a plan. A spokesperson for
the German government also saying
Germany won't provide military support
in Iran, [music] calling the war
unrelated to NATO.
And Meta will pay as much as $27 billion
over the next 5 years for access to AI
infrastructure from the cloud provider
[music] Nebius. Nebius is set to give
Meta $12 billion of dedicated capacity
starting starting early next year. Meta
is building a portfolio of massive AI
partnerships including with Nvidia and
AMD. That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yeah, I know. Thank you. Thanks for the
update. Appreciate it. Look, when I say
this, I understand people on Wall Street
are blessed. They just have to price
risk. They just have to price war risk.
They don't have to fight it. [music]
It's a very, very different story. So,
take this comment with a pinch of salt.
This from Peter Boockvar, published in
just moments ago. Is it Friday yet?
That's the sense of things on Wall
Street, right? It's like no weekends
anymore. Is it Friday yet?
>> Try keeping up. And not only is it not
weekends anymore, but I keep saying it
feels like 52 pickup where someone's
throwing up all the cards and then
saying try to find them all and put them
in order. And you're just sort of in
this role of, you know, trying to put
this all in some sort of
incomprehensible order.
>> Monday morning on Wall Street. Is it
Friday yet? Up next on the program,
securing the street.
The whole world will be united on the
need to open Hormuz, and clearly we will
have the support of other nations to
achieve that objective. Up next, Henry
to trace of Beta Partners live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Three week losing streak on the S&P 500.
Haven't had one of those in 12 months.
Responsible for two weeks of that, this
right here. Brent crude 102.83. Just
about holding [music] on to triple
digits and pulling back by third of 1%.
WTI breaking 97. We're down by 1.8% on
the session. In the equity market near
session highs on the S&P, the Nasdaq,
and the Russell. The S&P up by 0.7. The
Nasdaq higher by 0.8. Likewise on small
caps this morning. Under surveillance
this morning securing the strength.
The world depends on the flows through
Hormuz and most importantly the Asian
nations. Japan, Korea, China, Thailand,
India. A meaningful part of their total
energy supplies come from the Straits of
Hormuz. So of course the whole world
will be united on the need to open
Hormuz and [music] clearly we will have
the support of other nations to achieve
that objective. So here's the latest
this morning. The president demanding
other nations help open the Strait of
Hormuz with crude holding above $100 a
barrel. Bloomberg's Taylor Collateral
joins us now for more. Good morning
Taylor.
Hey John, good morning. Well, as
disruptions continue the White House
intensified its calls over the weekend
to reopen the Strait of Hormuz and new
within the last hour a NATO official in
an email statement to Bloomberg News
does confirm that individual allies are
speaking directly with the US about what
more they can do including in the
context of securing the Strait though it
appears that allies still remain wary.
We heard from the UK Prime Minister Keir
Starmer just moments ago a headline
crossing where he said that the effort
to reopen the Strait will not be a NATO
mission. President Trump told the FT in
an interview over the weekend that the
NATO alliance would have a quote very
bad future if allies did not help out
and that's not the only threat that
we've seen lobbied from the president in
recent days. He also threatened to delay
his planned visit to Beijing
uh set for the start of April if China
does not come and send a ships.
According to data analyzed by Bloomberg
Economics nearly 38% of total oil flows
through the Strait do go to Beijing but
our own analysts say that it is unlikely
that we would see China send ships due
in part to the fact that some of the
vessels that are getting through the
water right white right now are headed
towards Beijing and the country also has
a vast stockpile from the fat past few
years. The Wall Street Journal did
report over the weekend that we could
see a coalition announced as soon as
this week, but at this point it's
unclear what that would actually look
like and when it would take place either
before or after the conflict resolves.
John, in terms of other threats,
President Trump is now saying that the
US could target energy infrastructure if
disruptions through the Strait of Hormuz
continue. As you well know, the US
confirmed that it had hit military
targets on Kharg Island on Friday, the
country's top oil export hub. Tanah,
appreciate the update. Tanah Kendall
there from outside of the White House.
Tanah, thank you. Henrietta Treyz of
Treyz Partners has this to say,
"Permanently securing the Strait of
Hormuz will likely require a sustained
presence to override Iranian
weaponization on the economic front."
Henrietta, welcome back to the program.
The financial asymmetry is pretty
obvious here. It's costing America a lot
to fight this war. Just how much is this
costing?
Uh over a billion dollars a day. Yeah,
over 200 million dollars a day for
Americans buying gas at the pump. Um and
I think there's just this uncertainty
overhanging this cloud that markets hate
so much as the president gets sort of
increasingly hysterical with regards to
our NATO allies, whether it's the UK or
Germany or France, Spain, just going
after them in ways that remind me a lot
of 2025 except now he doesn't have
tariffs. And I I think it's striking
that just eight days before they started
bombing Iran, the Supreme Court took
away the president's tariffs. And it
seems obvious to me that he misses those
Ayatollah tariffs quite a bit. I think
it'd be a different situation if he
still had them. So, you know, his his
Twitter posts going after it, you know,
as extreme and dramatic as they are,
really underscore how much he misses
that cudgel that he just doesn't have
anymore. Henrietta, an a energy shock in
the United States is never good for a US
president. It's even worse in election
season. Right now you have the national
average $3.72 per gallon of gasoline in
California really already above $5 a
gallon potentially going to six sooner
rather than later. What could the
administration and Congress do when it
comes to protecting Americans at the
pump?
There's not a lot. There's There's
Actually, that's the wrong way to say
it. There are a lot of little things.
So, they can change the ethanol blending
rate to an annual blend instead of
exceptions for certain times of the
year. They can release some of the SPR.
They can change the Jones Act.
They can continue job owning the way
that the president is trying to do about
victories in Iran and how everything is
going swimmingly, but the reality is you
need the Strait of Hormuz to be
reopened.
And we need, for example, military ships
from France that have anti-mine
capabilities. We need the divers in
France that have the anti-mine
capabilities. And the president is just
not getting those allies on board with
this war of choice that he has decided
to engage in and the extremes that he is
trying to push on them are just not
working. As I mentioned, you can you can
feel the absence of the tax. Some of the
other tools the president also has is
maybe an export ban when it comes to US
crude and crude products as well as
gasoline price caps. What would Congress
say to that? Yeah, I think the export
ban is really interesting. I get that
question a lot from clients. I think
it's counterproductive though because
obviously the problem is not domestic.
We have a lot of energy production. We
have a lot of supply. We have shale
revolutions. We have alternative energy
sources. It's getting the oil around the
globe to places that are extremely
exposed to Iran that's the problem. So,
I think restricting exports would, while
it sounds good, be counterproductive in
the long run. And I think that would
frustrate the White House. So, I'm not
expecting to see that. Congress, for its
part, you know, I just spent a week up
on Capitol Hill. I don't think they're
ready to address the war in any kind of
material capacity. I think we're going
to have to get past the spring recess
which basically it us into mid-April
before they start to act on actual
legislation around another government
stimulus package. The farmers are going
to need a second bailout. It's not just
oil, you know, it's all the fertilizer
as you all well know. They're going to
need another $15 billion and the USDA is
working on that. So, I think we are
probably at a situation where it will be
at least 3 weeks of the continued war
before we see any action from Congress.
They're much happier to not focus on
this and they're going to be happy to go
on recess. Henrietta, I I don't mean to
be snarky, but are they prepared to do
anything on anything in the next couple
of months?
No, definitely not. And I don't think
it's snarky at all. I mean, the
president and the Republican conference
are at very different loggerheads when
it comes to the road to housing act,
when it comes to the crypto legislation.
And the president stressing at the
Republican retreat last week that he
wants to focus on the save act, which is
associated with mail-in balloting and
transgender sports. Um, we do not have a
package that is moving through the
Senate that can also pass the house to
also get the president's signature. And
they don't have an agenda list either.
So, um, the entire thing really I think
rests on a DHS reopening package. We're
on day, you know, 30 or whatever of a
DHS shutdown. Um, they're going to need
to address that, but I don't think it's
going to be until after the spring
recess. So, the whole agenda I think is
um, suspended and will be for the rest
of the year.
So, you don't think that DHS and that
sort of partial shutdown that's getting
people in lines and uh, waiting forever
when they go to the airport is going to
get resolved. I just wonder if in some
ways Congress has absolved its role as
an equal power with the executive
branch. But have we seen a fundamental
shift that will not go back to where it
was before?
Absolutely, Lisa. I mean, I think that
we saw that all through 2025 and
everybody's just waiting to get through
the midterms. The poll, the popularity
of President Trump with his voters is so
overwhelming that Republicans do not
have an opportunity to step outside the
lines with the lone except with a couple
lone exceptions. Um, I would say Senator
Tillis who we had the opportunity to sit
with for an hour. He is seriously going
against the president's agenda. The The
social media post the president put out
about the Federal Reserve chairman is
not going to land well with Senator
Tillis and he is absolutely living his
best life right now. Having a great time
standing up for the Fed
>> [laughter]
>> and saying we want Fed independence on
what this entire case thrown out. I want
it, you know, completely eliminated and
I will stay in this seat until January
3rd of 2027 making sure that that ends
up happening. And I think he's raising
the odds that Jay Powell stays on after
his uh replacement is confirmed just to
make sure that that sticks. Yeah, just
to echo that based on our conversations
with the senator from North Carolina,
seems like he's having a good time at
the moment. Henrietta, thank you.
Henrietta Treyz there at Federated
Partners. As we've been having this
conversation an update from the UAE on
oil production from the team and some
reporting elsewhere as well. Production
of the crude has fallen to about 2
million barrels per day. That was around
3 and 1/2 million around 3 and 1/2
million before this war broke out.
>> And we're just 3 weeks in so potentially
this number can actually get a lot
smaller which is why when the IEA comes
out with 400 million barrel a day and
stockpiles being released, it is not
enough to fill the gaps that we are
seeing right now. [music] Equity
features this morning positive by 0.7%
on the S&P 500. In just a moment we'll
talk about crude with Francisco Blanche
[music] of Bank of America on the
growing threat to global energy supplies
plus Danny, how's your morning movers
meta moving higher on some big reports
of some big layoffs. That stock is
higher by 3%.
>> moment 103.65 just about positive by
half of 1% [music] in the equity market
on the S&P 500 holding onto gains
following a four-day losing streak up by
>> [music]
>> 6/10 of 1%. Plenty of Monday morning
notes to drop in including this from
Mike Wilson over at Morgan Stanley.
Lisa, the bar remains high for the oil
[music] spike to threaten the business
earning cycle. While we can't rule out
modest downside in the near term, if the
rate of change on crude and [music] the
dollar accelerates further, we maintain
our view that this correction is closer
to its ending stages in time and in
price.
>> Yeah, they're not alone. There are
others as well including Goldman Sachs
and others who have come out and said
something similar because the US economy
is more immunized from any kind of oil
price shock uh to the downside and
frankly, there's a lot to like and
people keep pointing to that. We were
bullish just two weeks [music] ago. Do
we really have to change everything all
over again?
>> A 5% move on the S&P 500, is that your
dip? Is it time [music] to buy? Let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Danny Burger has more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. I want to start with where
the oil majors are trading this morning.
They still are moving higher even though
NYMEX crude is to the downside this
morning. Exxon and Chevron, Chevron has
been up some 5%
>> [music]
>> since the war started to close Friday at
a record. Exxon closed just under
record. That's up less about two and a
half percent. Some of the other
corporate news we are tracking, Reuters
reporting that Meta plans to lay off
staff. It could affect about 20% of
them. The idea is to funnel those
savings into AI infrastructure spending.
Uh they're going to be spending about
[music] half of the revenue on on
capital expenditures. So a a lot of
maybe efficiency Mark Zuckerberg wants
to bring back to the company. Those
shares up two and a half percent and
then the other side of this trade is
Meta assigning one of their biggest ever
single contracts with Nebius. This is a
Neo cloud. It's worth about $27 billion
over the next five years. Nebius is
going to provide them with about $12
billion worth of space [music] in their
Neo cloud. Uh so those shares moving
14.2%
in the pre-market, John. Danny,
appreciate the update. More from Danny
in the the hour. On our radar this
morning, Apollo executive [snorts] John
Zeito calling out quote arrogance in
private markets and blaming the media
for creating a frenzy around private
credit, according to audio obtained by
The Wall Street Journal. Zeito believes
his firm is on solid footing. Elsewhere,
the president saying Iran wants
ceasefire talks. Iran's foreign minister
refuting those claims.
No, we never asked for a ceasefire
and we have never asked even for
negotiation.
We are ready to defend ourselves as long
as it takes. Tehran launching fresh
attacks across the Persian Gulf as the
war enters its third week. And finally,
the world's largest single-site aluminum
smelter is cutting output as shipping
through the Strait of Hormuz stalls.
Aluminum prices on the LME, the London
Metal Exchange, briefly jumping to the
highest level since 2022. It's important
to remember we're not just talking about
crude when we're talking about the
Strait of Hormuz. And this story really
highlights that. Yes, it's aluminum, but
as we were talking earlier and Amree
mentioned, it's also about 30% of the
helium, which is a key ingredient to
semiconductors, also travels through
there. Also, 30 to 50% of the world's
urea, which is a key nitrogen ingredient
fertilizer, also of course about a
quarter of LNG, liquefied natural gas.
So, we're not just talking about an oil
shock. We're talking about a whole slew
of commodities that are also getting
severely impacted.
>> Well, it's not just this aluminum
smelter, it's also Total Energies
overnight talking about some of the
production they need to unwind in some
of these countries. On top of that, when
it comes to countries like India and
places in Asia, which is really on the
front lines of getting hit when it comes
to an energy shock, liquefied petroleum
gas, what they use to cook their meals
with, there was a story over the over a
Bloomberg over the weekend, the fact
that a number of Indian weddings, these
wedding venues had to go out and tell
brides and grooms were going to have to
cut back on the menu because we cannot
afford right now where prices are and we
don't have the stock when it comes to
this gas we need to make this food. It
is incredible what is going on right now
and it's not just the crude complex.
>> It's getting serious, that's for sure. I
just want to ask you a quick correction.
I've lived here more than a decade. I
love this country, forgive me. Aluminum.
Every time I say aluminum, I just don't
feel good. It's particularly aluminum on
the London Metal Exchange.
>> Right? Just a I think that it's fair. I
think it's fair for you to say aluminum.
You'll give me a whatever that was. But
it wasn't
>> [laughter]
>> WORTH
BUT IT WASN'T A WORTH the correction.
It's just a difference. It's an
alteration. Adidas Adidas. My brothers
and sisters over there might be getting,
you know Really upset. Upset, maybe.
Thanksgiving dinner. The family group
chat. Brent crude climbing over $100 a
barrel following President Trump's
threat to extend attacks on Iran's oil
hub. The NEC director Kevin Hassett
dismissing concerns about elevated
energy prices.
You can also look at futures markets,
which are interesting because you you've
cited over and over the spot price of
gasoline, which of course is affected
right now by the disruption of the
straight. But if you look at the futures
prices, they're expecting a rapid rapid
end to the situation and much much lower
prices. In fact, I don't think I've seen
a sort of future price path with a steep
a decline in all my years watching
futures.
Francisco Blanch of Bank of America
writing there, "Brent could well average
$100 a barrel for the year if the war
impacts oil balances significantly into
the third quarter and could average near
130 if the disruptions extend into the
fourth quarter." Francisco joins us now
for more. Francisco, welcome to the
program, sir. I want to start with a key
assumption of yours in your research. We
do not embed any permanent supply loss
from this war. Francisco, why's that
line so important?
Um thanks for having me, uh John, and
great to see you again. Um it's um it's
very important because if if we end up
with some some meaningful
uh destruction of energy assets, we are
going to have to we're going to see
forward points increasing very quickly
in the in in in in the curves, right?
These curves that
that uh Mr. Hassett was referring to in
his comments. So, um of course, we've
seen uh Kharg Island, Iran's main uh oil
loading terminal, uh been struck over
the weekend. And and uh there was a
clear point made that energy
infrastructure was still intact uh even
though military assets had been uh
specifically targeted. So, I think it's
it's very important, but but of course,
uh in in wars, as you know, um
it it's uh difficult to to uh find
sometimes uh closure. And uh
and and you know, we are we are always
one step away from a major um escalation
on the energy side. Uh and that's I
think the fear the oil market has. There
are supply chain realities though that
we could discuss right now. If you shut
in production, how hard is it to restart
it and get back production to where it
was before?
Well, I mean, I think I think there's
some concerns around that, but uh again,
most oil fields across the Middle East
are are conventional. So, uh I would
expect all of the production to come
back relatively quickly. Uh refineries
are another point of concern. Uh we saw
the Tehran refinery uh or at least
Tehran refinery fuel depots being
targeted. The refinery itself is is
unclear uh what's its current status.
But um but I think I think generally
most assets uh should be able to come
back within a month or 2 months. Um
if and when the war ends. Now, having
settled that, another key assumption in
our numbers is that uh Hormuz is going
to be reopening uh sometime soon uh to
to and recover the majority of its
traffic, uh which might also be uh maybe
too far-fetched an assumption. Um that's
one very very important concern. Uh
Hormuz, as you pointed out, is is is the
choke point for a lot of the commodity
flow in and out of the world.
Francisco, do you have a day circled on
the calendar this week, to John's point
earlier where you start to challenge
some of your assumptions and shift to
some of the $130 a barrel base cases.
Well, look, I mean we know that Houthis
were able to disrupt traffic in Bab
el-Mandeb for about 28 months. So, I
want to remind everybody of that. Um
flows were down from around 9 million
barrels a day to 4.1, 4.2. Now, the
difference between Bab el-Mandeb and and
Hormuz is that there's
clear alternatives that allow shippers
to reroute those 70 vessels that used to
cross.
A lot of them rerouted through the Cape.
Um
So, that was I think a
a big relief valve for for Bab
el-Mandeb. Here, there's no clear
rerouting. Um so, I think I think the
the options are are not great to reopen
the the strait uh particularly in the
light of of all the
capabilities that that that Iran might
have. And and also, uh to be honest,
this quickly becomes a bit of a
guerrilla war like we saw in Yemen. And
and and I think shippers themselves will
will be very very cautious not to not to
take that route if if there is risk of
of their vessels ending up in fire. And
and we've seen 20 of those already
been been attacked or so, I think. So,
it it's a difficult time for shippers,
for insurers. Uh everyone's kind of
waiting for a resolution, but but if it
doesn't come up in the next few weeks, I
I mean, I'm going to give it maybe until
the end of the month. Uh things can get
very very complicated for oil prices. We
had Jeff Currie of Carlyle on last week
and he was talking about how even if the
Strait of Hormuz is opened this week or
next week, there is going to be an extra
risk premium placed not on not only on
oil, but a whole bunch of different
commodities. Partly because there'll be
nations that are stockpiling akin to
what China has done, and partly because
people will understand that there is
that risk of transporting goods on the
seas. Do you agree with that thesis?
Yeah, I think I think the war is going
to
transform the way we think about
commodities more fundamentally.
Remember in the 1990s, Japan pushed for
just-in-time and in in the 2020s has
been China's just-in-case
strategy of inventory accumulation. So
they've been building up huge oil
reserves and
we've seen obviously in part because
trade tensions, in part of because of
political / military tensions, we've
seen a big build up in commodity
inventories.
I think this trend only speeds up
once the war is over and and and I think
that provides support to long dated
commodity prices sooner or later and and
we'll see I think
a bit of a bit of a mad rush once we are
out of of the war. But again, we need to
finish we need to see that this war
coming out to an end because
if we don't, I think the risks of
recession will grow by the week
as we head into April and and definitely
if we are still in the same place in May
looking to a third quarter, I've already
mentioned we could see spikes to $160 a
barrel. If if things keep going, we
could see Brent breaking $200 a barrel.
I think it may take a little longer to
get there but but it's important to
understand that that um
we don't have that much time and
and obviously the US is a little more
insulated than all regions but
but I think in particular Europe is very
very exposed as as are many other Asian
countries, particularly Northeast Asian
countries. Francisco, I know you that
you track what is going on in terms of
the OPEC countries and we've learned
this morning at Bloomberg that the UAE
production has fallen to about 2 million
barrels a day. It was closer to 3.6 in
February. What other countries do you
see production really falling off a
cliff when it comes to the Gulf?
Well, so so it is it is known that the
Iraq has been curtailing output as has
Kuwait.
Remember that
I mean I mean we think probably about 10
11 million barrels a day of of
production has been curtailed
in in the past 2 weeks. So it's about
10% of world supplies.
About 20% of this will pass through
Hormuz. So we've seen about
production cut in half. The
the other big issue I think is refined
petroleum products. Refineries have been
shut down across the board and the issue
with refineries is as you know is we
don't really we don't really have a
strategic petroleum reserve for
petroleum products.
We have it for crude oil.
So it's a little bit mislabeled. It's
really petroleum reserve is really
strategic crude oil reserve. So if we
lose refining capacity that impacts
petrochemical units. You pointed out to
weddings in India for for LPGs like
propane.
And and honestly like it's the supply
chain dislocations that are building up
in the background are are gigantic. I
mean remember 1% of energy is roughly 1%
of GDP. So if you take out 10 percentage
points of oil and oil is about a third
of energy plus obviously what we're
losing on gas, we are looking at
potentially 7 or 8 percentage points of
energy sucked out the world's system
right now and and and and that's going
to have a big knock down effect on GDP
very soon if if those
that disruption doesn't get resolved.
>> I'm glad you brought up products cuz a
lot of the conversations I had over the
weekend was centered around jet fuel,
diesel, LPG. When it comes to these Gulf
exporters, are they having to start to
pick and choose what they're going to
export? What's the most important for
the global economy?
Well we
are seeing very little petroleum very
little in terms of petroleum products
flowing through the Gulf. I mean my
understanding is whatever has been
flowing has been Iranian crude oil to
the tune of 1.5 to 2 million barrels a
day.
And and again those are those are crude
vessels heading for China. Which I think
sets a very interesting next set of days
with with Harg Island now being a bit a
bit in limbo.
But but also importantly, I think the uh
petroleum products
uh are are already experiencing huge
distress.
Um, jet fuel prices are $250 a barrel
already, right? So, we've seen that and
and and
and we've seen in fact uh Dubai crude
oil uh over $150 a barrel. Uh again,
that's crude oil for delivery in in in
the Persian Gulf. And and and of course,
we know China has been curtailing, has
actually banned the export of petroleum
product fuels like gasoline, jet fuel,
and diesel, which is in part
exacerbating this problem. So, I think
the question is who else is going to do
it? Uh who else is going to preserve uh
or limit those petroleum product
exports? Um and and and of course, uh we
know who is most dependent on those
petroleum product exports. Number one
exporter in the world of petroleum
products, America, 7 million barrels a
day. So, not a bad time for US refiners,
but um uh obviously a point of concern
as uh those petroleum fuels that are
being exported also impact domestic
prices
uh for gasoline at home in America. So,
lots of question marks as countries go
on to to protect their own market.
Francesco, always good to catch up and
get some clarity from you
at a very volatile time. Francesco
Blanch there of Bank of America on the
broader commodity market. The latest on
China, a big factor here. The president
spoke to the Financial Times over the
week and it said this about China. I
think China should help too because
China gets 90% of its crude from the
Strait of Hormuz. Before going on to say
that we need to address these issues and
ultimately he might have to delay his
trip to China, which was set to take
place in the next couple of weeks. The
Treasury Secretary has been meeting with
the Chinese counterpart over the weekend
in Paris in preparation for that
get-together, that meeting over in
China. And this is what the Treasury
Secretary had to say to the American
press just moments ago. If you're
connecting those stories, don't. It's
false to say if China doesn't open
Hormuz that the trip will be delayed. If
the president delays the China trip, it
would be due to prosecuting the war, the
Treasury Secretary just moments ago. So,
he's trying to put some distance between
that trip and what is going on right now
with the Strait of Hormuz and the fact
that the president is coming out and
saying that he is demanding, saying it
is appropriate last night that people
who are the beneficiaries of the Strait
will help to make sure that nothing bad
happens there. The biggest beneficiary
of the Strait of Hormuz is arguably
China with Iran's exports, 90%, 95%
going to Beijing. But, the Treasury
Secretary is trying to cause uh put a
gap in between almost what the president
threatened last night when it comes to
Air Force One in that interview with the
Financial Times.
>> Besson doing what Besson does, which is
calm things down just a little bit.
Crude right now, 103 on Brent, WTI 97.
We'll have an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hi, Yahara. Hi, John.
As Anne Marie mentioned, the UAE's daily
oil output has been cut nearly in half.
Reuters reporting crude production has
fallen to 2 million barrels a day from
over 3 and 1/2 million in February. The
Iran war and the effective closure of
the Strait of Hormuz has forced
widespread production cuts both on and
offshore.
Elsewhere in the UAE, Dubai's main
airport resuming operations after a
drone attack sparked a fuel tank fire
that suspended flights. State-owned
carrier Emirates restarting a limited
schedule [music] after a more than
7-hour ground stop. The world's busiest
hub for long-haul flights suffering
three disruptions since the war began.
And here in the US, FCC Chairman Brendan
Brendan Carr threatening the licenses of
major media broadcasters in a post on
social media. Carr writing broadcasters
that are running hoaxes and news
distortions have a chance now to correct
course before their license renewals
come up. Carr's warning follows a post
from President Donald Trump
>> [music]
>> complaining about coverage of the US
Israeli strikes on Iran. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohaira, thank
you. Thanks for the update. More from
Yohaira in about 30 minutes time. I'm
next on the program. [music] Short-term
pain for long-term gain.
The conflict will come to the end in the
next few weeks, [music] and we'll see a
rebound in supplies and a pushing down
of prices after that. This is short-term
pain to get through to a much better
place. Up next, Mishaal Abdalghafar of
Morgan Stanley from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Getting a real-time update on crude
production from the team here at
Bloomberg. So, according to sources
[music] familiar with the matters, Q80
oil output has fallen to about 1.3
million barrels a day. Before the war,
that was 2.6. That's the latest on
Kuwait. This is the latest on UAE. Oil
production there has fallen to about 2
million [music] barrels per day versus
3.56
back in February before this war. Just
gives you an idea of how much production
has been [music] cut in certain places,
by about half. Brent crude right now
positive by 2/10 of 1%. 103.34 on Brent.
WTI at about 97. We're starting to calm
down just a bit in the commodity market.
In the equity market, it looks like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
positive for the last few hours,
positive by 3/4 of 1%. And the Savannah
this morning, [music] short-term pain
for long-term gain.
Yeah, I think that this conflict will
certainly come to the end in the next
few weeks. Could could be sooner than
that, but the conflict will come to the
end in the next few weeks, and we'll see
a rebound in supplies and a pushing down
of prices after that. This is short-term
pain to get through to a much better
place, where the Middle East can no
longer be held hostage by the one rogue
nation in
in Iran. So, here's the latest this
morning. Rising oil prices and the
threat of higher inflation leading
investors to scale back rate cut bets.
Vishal Khanduja of Morgan Stanley saying
the onset of the war changed the
dynamics. The stagflationary shock will
delay central bank easing and inflation
will cause further macro dispersion.
Vishal joins us now for more. Vishal,
welcome to the program. Ultimately, what
does it mean for this Federal Reserve as
they get together down in Washington
D.C. tomorrow?
Uh morning, John. Thanks for having me
on. Interesting times that we live in.
Um not just uh inflation shock. I think
we're seeing a growth shock as well that
will probably subsequently follow. We've
seen how history is proving to this or
or uh guides us towards this. Uh
countries that are going through or
regions that are going through um uh
this one right now and are oil importing
or energy importing uh will feel that
shock quite significantly. Countries or
regions that are uh net exporters like
the US, yes, we will feel it. It's
painful, but it won't linger in the
economy um
uh for for long periods of time. But,
growth shocks or the negative side will
be felt. Uh so, this week is a tough one
for the Fed as well as the other central
banks. I think it's easier for the Fed
versus the other central banks, to be
honest.
Uh but, yes, I think a little bit more
direction and no action this week.
Vishal, do you think that this is an
opportunity to buy longer-term bonds if
you believe this is going to be more of
a growth shock and not necessarily a
longer-term inflation shock?
We do think that way. I think around
that 10-year, 7 to 10-year point of the
yield curve does provide you quite a bit
of protection both from a growth shock
subsequent uh that that will follow, as
well as I think that sort of
uh if you go back to what the Fed was
telling us, uh they felt that the rates
even before this were in the restricted
territory. And now we've backed up not
only rates, smidge on the interest
uh sorry, spreads as well. That gets the
overall sort of monetary policy a little
bit more restrictive than what it was.
Now, the Fed, if it had its in its own,
could have two rates, one for the lower
end of the economy and one for the upper
end of the economy, but I think they
have to suffice with one. And we do
think that they will focus on their
second part of their mandate, which is
the labor market, a lot more going
forward. Who would you rather be this
week, Vishal? Fed Chair Jay Powell or
ECB President Christine Lagarde?
Absolutely Jay Powell. Easier shoes to
fill.
Economy can withstand this. We are
coming into this with very, very strong
balance sheets. Now, again, both those
uh central bankers have to focus on the
dispersion of opinions and dispersion in
the economy that they're going to go
through as well. Europe, with different
countries coming together, one country
doing really well versus the other four.
And then the US, you're seeing a
significant K-shaped economy in this
thing, the extra $200 million
uh
that that, you know, the oil price jump.
Well, in fact, it's going to impact more
on that lower end of the K-shaped
economy. So, tough jobs
uh they have to fulfill, tough shoes to
fill in this week.
>> Vishal, is this a different ECB? Is
there anything left of the trichet ECB
in 2008 when they did hike interest
rates?
They are looking at history and
significantly worried about this thing.
Uh they do not want to hike in a period
where uh growth dynamics were uh
deteriorating. Certain parts of their
coalition uh are suffering through uh
deficit issues, similar to the US.
France, Italy being case in point.
They're going to go through some
elections. Uh taxes are very, very high.
UK, not in the EU, but still in that
similar region, is facing similar issues
as well. Uh so, they're looking at
history and nauseating
uh over this oil shock that we're going
through. And that's why we believe that
there might be
uh sort of pain points or pain
thresholds that we are crossing through
as we are extending the duration of this
conflict. History has not been kind to
that decision. That's for sure. Vishal,
it's good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Vishal Kanduja of Morgan Stanley, the
ECB. [music]
Their decision on Thursday, the two-day
meeting of the Federal Reserve begins
tomorrow, concludes on Wednesday. Coming
up in the next hour, Liz Thomas [music]
of SoFi, Jake Ouberg of Seaport, David
Sief of Nomura, Barbara Reinhard of Voya
Investment Management. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is up next.
Investors are giving this bull market
the benefit of the doubt.
>> This is starting to weigh on the market,
but we have not quite seen that typical
pullback.
>> Markets have essentially got an
assumption that this could be a quick
war. We don't have a lens on when this
is going to end. Nobody does. The market
right now [music] is overly complacent
in my mind.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equities near session highs
on the S&P 500, higher by 0.8%. Small
caps outperforming, up by one percentage
point. In the commodity market, Brent
and WTI taking shape and looking like
this. Brent crude unchanged at 103. WTI
at 97. And following a weekend full of
escalating strikes into this week. This
week right here full of central bank
decisions. The Federal Reserve on
Wednesday. And ECB, BOE, BOJ a few days
away as well. Yeah, how do you respond
to a stagflationary shock? How do you
deal with the fact that inflation
expectations in the short-term are
picking up to a significant degree at
the same time that potentially this
could crimp growth. Not well. That's
sort of been history. And right now at
the Fed has an easier job arguably of
the different uh panoply of central
banks that are going to give release
their decisions. The ECB, [music] the
Bank of England, I do not envy them
given the fact that they face a bigger
hit to growth and potentially a bigger
fiscal response that will create some
issues for them on the fiscal and the
debt side. We've repriced energy. They
need to reprice growth if these moves
hold. This from Kuwait moments ago, the
team here at Bloomberg just breaking
down the cuts to production we've seen
across the region in the Middle East
right now.
>> [music]
>> Output in Kuwait has fallen to about 1.3
million barrels per day. Before the war
in February, that number was 2.6, double
what it is right now. For the UAE, that
number now has fallen to about 2 million
barrels per day. The number before the
war for the month of February, [music]
3.56
million. That's just two nations.
There's others in the mix as well. But
you can see the cuts here. We're talking
about half, production cut in half at
key producers in the Middle East.
>> is only the third week in and this is
what happens when basically you have the
Strait of Hormuz blocked and this
product has nowhere to go. We're still
waiting on other numbers officially. We
know that Iraq's numbers have come down,
waiting on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
How much have they had to wind down some
of their production given what's
happening right now. And the issue
[music] with the Strait of Hormuz is
that there's no answer right now and
everyone says you can pick apart and do
little tools here and there, but the
only silver bullet [music] you have is
reopening that straight. When it comes
to the coalition, there's not a lot of
countries that are running to the
president's help.
>> The Iranians want you to feel it. They
want you to feel the pain to make sure
this never happens again. That's the
goal of the Iranians. It's basically
what we heard from the foreign minister
earlier on this morning. [music]
Ceasefire isn't the goal. That's not
exactly what they're trying to do. What
they're trying to do is to prevent this
from ever happening again and they've
talked [music] about $200 per barrel
that is being an inevitability and
frankly almost a goal. What can you do
to offset this? What [music] do you do
if you are a corporate executive trying
to come up with plan and giving
guidance? Good luck. It's going to be
very challenging whether you're an oil
executive or an executive that requires
the use, which is pretty much every
company, diesel, jet fuel, helium,
fertilizer. This is going across not
just the crude landscape, but other
commodities as well. When it comes to
the Strait of Hormuz, then what the
Iranians are doing, there [music] have
been a tremendous amount of pressure put
on this regime, and they are still not
saying that they want to come to the
table. [music] Not just the Ayatollah
and top brass regime taken out, but
Kharg Island was hit. The military
complex on Kharg Island was hit. Nine
out of every 10 crude barrels that Iran
exports goes through that island. So,
Trump is showing them he can really hit
them where it hurts, and it's not
working right now.
>> we are Monday morning with equities up
by 0.8% on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, Liz Thomas of SoFi with stocks on
a 3-week decline as conflict in the
Middle East sparks volatility. Jake
Goldberg of Seaport looking ahead to
Nvidia's AI conference, and David Seed
of Nomura counting down to this week's
Fed decision. We begin this hour with
stocks aiming to snap a 4-day losing
streak. Liz Thomas of SoFi writing,
"Periods like this are incredibly
uncomfortable and impossible to predict,
but it's unlikely that the stock market
experiences a prolonged or deep
drawdown." Liz joins us now for more.
Liz, good to see you in the studio. Good
morning. Good to see you, too. I sound
optimistic in that statement.
>> On the edge of optimism. After a 5%
decline, is that it? In In my defense, I
wrote that last Wednesday. So. How much
has changed in a few trading days?
>> I mean, it's Here's the thing. This is
all about how long this lasts, and how
many countries are impacted from a
growth perspective. Now, this word of
stagflation is back, and it's back in a
strong way, and I think we're worried
about that globally. But, I do believe
that if this only lasts for, let's say,
a month or less, we will be okay. There
will be a snapback, and generally, I
would say it's likely that we go back to
the trends that were in place in January
and maybe early February. That sort of
cyclical rotation in the market. It's
obvious to me that investors still have
risk appetite. They're looking to
position themselves in places that have
been beaten down. So, we've had some
rough days throughout this conflict, but
was interesting in even in the early
days you saw something like software
bounce on those rough days. So, there's
risk appetite there, I think. As long as
we don't destroy that risk appetite, we
still have an opportunity to bounce back
if this de-escalates.
>> see how this has played out in
commodities and energy, obviously, and
you can see that's how this has played
out in rates, in yields, and how we're
pricing central banks and easing or not
over the next year or so. Where have you
seen it play out in equities? Have you
seen any pockets of capitulation in the
equity market? Well, I think the ones
that had been beaten down already, I
already mentioned software. I think that
found its bottom or at least is in the
bottoming process, and investors are
looking for ways to position in some of
those that maybe were called falling
knives before, but now the knife has
fallen, right? So, looking for
opportunities. And And something like
software, even before this conflict
began, it was trading as if the entire
industry was going to disappear, and
that's probably not going to happen.
Will there be disruption? Of course, but
disappearance? Probably not. So, I think
I'm willing to leg into it and watch how
this plays out as the year progresses.
Other places that have been hit pretty
hard by this, I mean, all of the
cyclical sectors have been hit hard,
industrials, materials, even consumer
discretionary and staples have been hit
because we have this big question mark
of how much will companies pass through
if there is an inflationary shock and
the consumer has to pull back.
Rather than saying a certain spot in the
market, I'd like to see consumer
confidence bounce back. And if inflation
feels like it's more under control or
we're not going to have this prolonged
shock, I think consumer confidence will
bounce back pretty quickly. I think that
John's question really points to the
paddling duck aspect of this market. The
idea that each sector has been really
operating on its own dynamics, and
you've seen, you know, half the stocks
go up 20%, half the stocks go down 20%,
and sure the index looks flat, but a
lot's going on under the surface. How
long can that feature be a feature of
resilience versus really challenged
should there be a true growth scare in
the United States? So, what I think you
need to see and this is I'm going to
answer both of your questions at the
same time here. True capitulation is
something that happens when you see
correlation and volatility rise together
and I don't think we've really seen that
yet. At least not even for a full
trading day. We saw it the Tuesday after
this conflict began. We saw it in the
morning. It was a really rough Tuesday
morning. Everything was down. The good
stuff was being thrown out with the bad
stuff. If that happens for a few days,
then I think you've reached that peak
fear. I don't think we've priced in peak
fear yet and unfortunately, we might
need to see a full flush before we can
find some more footing. But as I
mentioned to John,
the risk appetite for cyclicals and some
of the spots that are looking more
attractively valued, I think is still
healthy. So, it's still alive. So, that
sort of paddling duck under the surface
is still looking for places to buy in
equities and that I think as long as it
remains alive is a good thing for
strength ahead.
That's all sort of caveated by let's say
this does last over a month and let's
say break even inflation rates spike and
stay elevated. Let's say we've got a Fed
who talks this Wednesday about
stagflationary risks or starts to give
us the impression that they're more
concerned about inflation than jobs,
then I think we've got a conversation
where something like hikes comes back
onto the table later this year, which
would probably terrify markets. Would
you that make you more bullish or less
bullish in the long end of the yield
curve?
On the long end of the yield yield
curve, less bullish and and I think
we've seen the 10-year rise over this
period for good reason. I mean, this
would end up being an inflationary shock
in in many ways and and there
there is some maybe saving grace that we
are a net exporter of oil. So as prices
rise, there are certain spots in the US
economy that could benefit from that.
But the consumer drives our economy and
if you've got a consumer that's under
pressure already from inflation and has
been for a number of years and now we're
taking one of the non-negotiable items
of their spending, which is energy and
particularly gasoline, get to work, take
your kids to school, and pressuring
that, then we've got a consumer that has
to pull back and make different
decisions in other places. And trip on
bond yields, it's been unreal. February
up 30 or rather down 30 basis points and
then March up 30 basis points, back to
where we were at the start of last
month.
>> Yeah, and a full range of one particular
benchmark yield. I mean, it's not
exactly moving that much out of that
range. I do wonder though, is this going
to be recessionary or disinflationary
down the line? I guess that's the real
question because if you start to spend
less, does that cause the economy to
grow more slowly or even contract and
lead to lower yields down the line? This
is sort of one of the big debates right
now on Wall Street.
>> Let's mention consumer confidence. You
Mitch came out on Friday going into the
weekend sentiment three-month low. The
survey director said this to us, the
sentiment readings that came in after
the attacks were considerably lower than
what we were collecting beforehand. The
survey period really important here. It
was between Feb 17th and March 9th. So
ultimately, anything that came
afterwards, you saw a very different
picture. I wonder Liz, in your mind and
just to wrap things up, do you think
this is going to change how how
consumers interact with the economy when
they get those tax refunds which were
meant to fuel a cyclical bounce in this
economy?
Yes, I think in the near term it will
and and there are two different consumer
confidence readings. There's the
University of Michigan and there's the
Conference Board. The questions for
University of Michigan skew towards
inflation more than jobs. Conference
Board more toward jobs. So I would
expect that we see a bigger hit to the
University of Michigan numbers than the
Conference Board numbers. But yes, in
the near term consumers do usually pull
back. I think we're We're in an era
though where the consumer will just hit
pause and not stop and not reverse yet.
We haven't gotten to a point in gas
prices yet. I think where people have
seen demand destruction or entirely
changed their behavior, but there is a
pause button that gets hit and you'll
see that sort of bake through into the
data. One of the things that's really
important to watch in this upcoming
earning season is operating margins to
see if companies have needed to start
managing their cost structure
differently. I don't expect Operating
margins are very strong right now. In
fact, above trend. So there is some
buffer to absorb this, but I don't
expect that there's companies that are
going to manage it yet. But you do want
to watch that line, that operating
margin line for a rollover, even just
the beginning of a rollover and then
sort of manage your expectations if it
starts to come down. Liz, this was
awesome. It's good to see you in person.
Thanks for being here. Thank you. Liz
Thomas SoFi breaking down this market.
You mentioned earning season and
corporate executives who will need to
talk about this. That's about a month
away, the middle of April when the bank
earnings begin. Yeah, they're probably
glad they've got a little time to see
how long this is going to go on into the
point of that one big beautiful bill. I
still go back to this Deutsche Bank
economists think that
a sustained oil price right $100 a
barrel would be manageable and actually
would be offset entirely and then some
by the one big beautiful bill, but $150
is another story, even $130. So there
still is a sort of sea change as it goes
higher.
>> But not if some of that money was
already spent because consumers knew it
was coming down the pipeline. They maybe
spent it during the holiday season or in
January when electricity prices were
higher. This is going to get incredibly
challenging for this administration as
gas prices continue to tick higher. In
some states, it's already above $5 a
gallon and I think when it gets to four
and continues tracking to five, that's
when you can see more of these
controversial tools coming out of the
toolbox.
>> Average around 370 at the moment and
climbing pretty quickly. Let's give an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Ye Heira has
more. Hi Ye Heira. Hi John.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent Singh
this morning. He sees more and more oil
going through the Strait of Hormuz and
expects oil prices to fall quote much
lower than $80 a barrel in the coming
months. [music] Bessent went on to say
his recent talks with his Chinese
counterparts in Paris went well and it's
false to say President [music] Trump's
scheduled trip to China may be delayed
due to the war.
Iranian authorities are not seeking a
ceasefire as the war enters its third
week. The country's foreign minister
saying quote this war must end in such a
way that our enemies never again think
of repeating these attacks. President
Trump saying Washington is talking to
Tehran
>> [music]
>> but he's not sure if Iranians were
ready.
And US allies responding to President
Trump's calls to form a coalition to
support safe passage through the Strait
of Hormuz. UK Prime Minister Keir
Starmer saying efforts to reopen the
Strait will come as a NATO mission but
the UK will work with partners on a
plan. A spokesperson for for the German
government also saying Germany won't
provide military support in Iran calling
the war [music] unrelated to NATO.
That's your Bloomberg brief John. thank
you. Appreciate it. And next on the
program the Mona Clause Plus Jake
Goldberg of Seaport Global looking ahead
to Nvidia's AI conference live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Most assets [music] should be able to
come back within a month or two months
if and when the war ends. Another key
assumption in our numbers is that Hormuz
is going to be reopening which might
also be maybe too far-fetched
assumption. We are always one step away
from a major
>> [music]
>> escalation on the energy side.
And that's I think the fear the oil
market has. I would say that was a
balanced interview with Francisco Blanch
of Bank of America a little bit earlier.
Aware of the risk, but constructive on
the outlook [music] and confident that
we can bounce back from this shock if it
ends quickly, and that's a big if. Right
now, crude looks like this. Brent
pulling back by just a tenth of 1%.
Brent 103, WTI 9660 and down 2
percentage points.
>> [music]
>> That move sets the tone for this. Just
taps equities on the margin following a
four-day slide. A four-day losing streak
coming into Monday on the S&P. We
bounced back by 0.9% [music] on the S&P.
On the Nasdaq, up by 1 full percentage
point. That's the price action. Let's
get you some morning calls. First up,
Wells Fargo cutting its price target on
United Airlines to 130, citing risk from
higher fuel prices. Your second [music]
call from Seaport Research downgrading
Qualcomm to sell, saying the memory
crunch is going to hit its customers the
hardest. And finally, from RBC, raising
its price target on Micron to 525,
expecting data center [music] demand to
drive multiple expansion. That stock is
up in the premarket by 4%. Let's stick
with tech. Nvidia's annual AI conference
kicking off today. Traders looking for a
fresh catalyst with the stock trading
lower despite last month's blowout
earnings report. Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow
joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the show, buddy. What are you looking
for later?
Yeah, I mean, a fresh catalyst is
exactly what the the street is looking
for, John. But that catalyst is going to
have to be pretty spectacular to move
the needle. You know, like the the
problem with Nvidia is that it's a stock
that's traded in a very narrow range,
sideways essentially, for more than 6
months. And all of the growth that came
from some 2022 through 2024 that was
that was predicated on on real revenues
growth, that that nothing's really
changed since. So, Nvidia has this this
guidance for 500 billion dollars of data
center sales through the end of the
year. And they'd already kind of
indicated at the start of this year that
that they were tracking beyond that. If
you you basically both across the buy
side and sell side were to summarize the
sentiment, that $500 billion figure is
going to have to change enormously for
to move the needle here. But it is how
can I say this with respect? It can be a
bit of a circus. It's 48 hours of just
Nvidia everything where you hear from
from the main man Jensen Huang himself a
half a dozen times. So brace. Stock has
done nothing for more than four months.
It needs to start doing something.
That's for sure. It's negative on the
year so far. And before you go, I wanted
to squeeze in this from Reuters. Meta,
this could be a big story. Planning
sweeping layoffs according to Reuters
that could affect 20% or more of the
company. Is this a block type play? What
do you think this is?
>> Yeah, the interpretation is that it is a
block type play. That there's limited
sell side reaction, but they're all
looking at it and saying actually
following on from Block, you know,
decreasing head count such as it is,
Meta is a good candidate to follow suit.
And it would The reason the stock might
be higher in pre-market is that it would
be evidence that AI is having a positive
meaningful impact for Meta to make that
change. I would also note right in
capital expenditures or R&D that they're
spending tracks very high relative to
peers. And so maybe, you know, that
either justifies it or they'll have to
pull back on some things. But that that
certainly is the signal from the market
in how this is being read. Stock is up
by 3% in the pre-market. Ed, good to see
you. Looking forward to the show later.
Bloomberg Technology a few hours away.
Meta employs about 80,000 people. 20% is
not nothing. That's for sure. And we've
seen them already engage with rounds of
layoffs like this, right? The year of
efficiency led to the year of
investment. This time they're still
investing a tremendous amount of money,
but it is not going to increasing their
staff. And that really speaks to the
trend right now in tech.
>> Let's keep it on tech and talk about
Nvidia. Jay Goldberg of Seaport Global
has a rest celebrating and 140 price
target on shares of Nvidia writing this
will likely be a tough year buffeted by
shortages and rising costs without the
demand to bolster their results. Jay
joined us now for more. Jay, welcome to
the show. Let's talk about the
difference between vision and execution.
Today might be about vision. Why is the
execution a problem?
I think the execution is a problem in
part for a lot of factors beyond
Nvidia's control, right? One of their
big limitations right now, why they
can't take numbers up higher, is because
they're limited at the capacity they've
got allocated by TSMC, right? TSMC can
only make and can only package so many
Nvidia chips. Nvidia's getting
everything they can out of TSMC this
year,
and that that's a big pretty hard
constraint. I think you look a little
bit further out, there's also, I think,
growing friction in trying to finance
these data centers, right? You I I saw
statistics yesterday that you look at
the hyperscalers, they have something
like 700 billion dollars in operating
leases off their books. Um,
and these In order for Nvidia's numbers
to keep moving up in a way that I think
will make people happy,
uh, you need to have some really big
numbers, you know, people have to pay
for it, and that's getting harder and
harder with the size of some of these
data centers that are coming online in
the next year or two. Jay, do you expect
to get any guidance as to what the Iran
war is potentially going to mean for
Nvidia? And I say this, Emry made a
great point about 33% of the world's
helium travels, transports through the
strait, and that is crucial for TSMC's
production of chips, and the world's
majority of them. I mean, do you have a
sense of how some of the big tech
players, Nvidia primarily among them,
are really viewing this?
I I think the primary concern around the
[snorts] Iran war for semis this year is
more on the demand side. What that's
going to do demand, you just had a guest
on talking about oil prices going way
up, that's going to crimp consumer
demand, and just people make people a
little more risk averse when it comes to
investing hundreds of billions of
dollars at data centers. In terms of
little spot shortages like helium, I
think there's a pretty good amount of
helium already in reserves out there.
I'm not so worried specifically about
that one component. But you have to
remember the context of everything in
semiconductors is constrained right now.
Helium is just one more constraint. Um
there's a lot of bottlenecks in the
industry right now. But Jay, on this
point when it comes to a company like
Nvidia, uh you had Jensen Huang with the
president a year ago on that Middle East
trip. I spoke to him in Riyadh. He was
so excited about data centers in Saudi
Arabia and the UAE. Do they need to
rethink that rollout?
I I think geopolitics are a giant wild
card for the whole industry that nobody
can predict right now. I mean on that
right after that same trip uh the the
president tweeted out that they were
going to they'd reached an agreement for
Nvidia to sell chips to China. Uh we
still don't have that, right? So we're
still sort of bottlenecked by that as
well. Uh
certainly uh data center construction
I'm imagining is not a high priority in
the Gulf right now, uh and that's going
to be a a concern for
for for lots of players here. Um
but I you know,
I I think that that's sort of a for for
me like worrying about the Iran war,
there there bigger concerns than data
centers and AI getting built.
Well, what are the bigger concerns? You
mentioned China. We do have the
president potentially weighing not going
to Beijing on this trip. You mentioned
these chips that are not even going to
China yet. Does China have the appetite
for the level of chips that the United
States is willing to send?
I think there is a lot of demand out
there for AI chips. And I think what's
happening is this big meteor of demand
has hit the industry and is rippling
across and Nvidia got sold out first.
Now we see that demand spreading to
other companies like Broadcom who I
think is is still very well positioned
here. AMD starts to starts to get into
the mix as well. Right? If you look at
the numbers, Nvidia's at serve 83% share
of data center
semiconductors right now.
Um
and that's that's sort of plateaued,
right? Where do you go up from it? Where
do you go from 80 83% share? It's hard
to go up much from that.
And I think if if it's going to get it's
gotten what is it what share it has and
now we see
competitors have a you know have seen
the door cracked open for them and and
they're rushing in there. IJ, it's good
to see you. Thank you, buddy. Take a
look there at Sea Port Global ahead of
this developers conference a little bit
later. Ed Ludlow kind of height will
guide you through that story later on
today. Big tailwind for that company
coming into this year was the sovereign
story.
And a lot of that was coming out of the
Middle East and I wonder to what extent
that's been upended by the past few
weeks. Absolutely. A lot of money was
being sent by these hyperscalers to the
UAE, to Saudi Arabia to create these
data centers. What are they going to do
in the future? These data centers now
need to go underground cuz they're
concerned of the security risk. This is
a huge problem. Also, if you are
shipping these chips from Taiwan to the
United States, how are you doing that?
It's going to be a lot more expensive
and potentially you have to avoid a huge
region in in the global world.
>> countries are making less money. We're
seeing the production numbers this
morning coming out of UAE [music] and
Kuwait. Production cut in half basically
as some of those key producers across
the Middle East. Up next on the program,
David Sief of Nomura counting down to
this week's Fed decision plus Danny
Burger has your morning movers. Micron
rising ahead of results this week. That
stock is up by 4%.
Stocks are higher by 0.9% [music] on the
S&P 500 following a four-day losing
streak through Friday and coming into
Monday. We bounced by 1% on the Nasdaq
and by 1% [music] plus on the Russell
2000. In the commodity market, the highs
overnight 106.50 on Brent. The high
overnight on WTI [music] 102.44. We're
off those levels. 103 on Brent. WTI at
9660, and that's breathing some life
into this equity market rally. In the
bond market, major moves on the month so
far. Yields higher by some 30 basis
points across [music] the curve, twos
and 10s. Coming into Monday, we declined
by four basis points across the curve,
twos out to 10s. [music] The 10-year at
424, the 2-year at 367. The Fed meets on
Wednesday, and some major questions
about how they take this move in crude
and put it into their outlook.
>> The way that the market has put it into
their outlook is by subtracting one rate
cut from their expectations. When you
look at Fed funds futures, there now is
one full rate cut being priced in, and
only at the end of the year. Do you get
confirmation of that? Do you start to
hear about geopolitics? Do you hard to
start to see or hear about the idea that
even transitory shocks could have big
ramifications in the short term for
inflation expectations. The rhetoric
will be key.
>> It's a full power act coming up on
Wednesday. You've got the statement, the
news conference, the outlook, and then
the political cloud just hanging over
the Federal Reserve at the same time.
Some big questions about the future of
Chairman Powell. You know, when I was
asked this question a few times about
whether he'd step down in May and just,
you know, enjoy retirement, make some
real money again away from the central
bank, which compared to his PE money
days is is like nothing.
>> real money. He needs to make real money.
I'm sure there's a lifestyle to upkeep.
But for him, I do wonder if he stays
around now because these legal issues
are just [music] not going away. They're
not going away. Even though the White
House in a sense was gifted a gift over
the weekend. On Friday, you had the US
District Court Court basically saying
you cannot subpoena the Federal Reserve.
And then you had attorney Piro come out
and say, "What we are going to do is
continue the investigation, and we will
[music] appeal this." Okay, then it went
silent until just after midnight
tonight. The president
>> [music]
>> unleashed on J. Powell and the District
Court for what they're doing. So it
doesn't seem like they're trying to wrap
this up anytime soon. The senator from
North Carolina is a key player here,
Thom Tillis, good friend of this program
over the years. He's basically saying,
"Just take the out. Why are you not
taking the out? The off-ramp is there.
Your guys lined up. We're going to
confirm him in the Senate and we can
move on. Here's the off-ramp, take it,
but they're not taking the off-ramp.
>> I can't answer that question, but it
feels a little bit like when you're in
third grade and you say, "You know,
you're a dummy. No, you are. No, you
are." and you keep [music] saying it
because no one's willing to stop. It
feels a little bit like that. The
funniest part of that press conference
was, um, every reporter kept asking
about Senator Tillis and clearly
Attorney Pierson was getting very
annoyed cuz she said her name is not
politics. At one point she goes, "I
don't even know who she he is." talking
about Kevin Warsh. I'm not sure the
incoming potential Fed [music] chair
like the idea of that.
>> There you go. We'll get back to that
story in just a moment. Equity futures
positive here by 0.9%. The opening bell
just around the corner, less than 1 hour
away. Let's get you some morning movers,
some single names. Dani Has more. Hey,
Dani. Hey, John. A little bit of deal
news this morning. Uh, Public Storage
will be buying National Storage creating
a $57 billion storage giant. The deal
size is about $5.6 billion. They're
offering just over $42 a share for
National Storage. So, you can say we're
surging. We're not even at the deal
price yet. That moves higher by 27% in
the premarket. Public Storage sinks by
about 4% in the premarket trade.
Elsewhere, we do have some earnings,
some big earnings coming up this week.
We're going to hear from Micron on
Wednesday.
very bullish out with a lot of upgrades
and again bullish language ahead of
that. So, we are seeing the shares rally
3.9% in the premarket. TD Cowen says
that they expect a bit big beat and RBC
lifting their guidance ahead of those
results. Again, they come on Wednesday.
Finally, rounding things out with
another set of earnings from Dollar Tree
this morning. Shares up 1.9%
in the past year. They swung to a profit
after a loss in the quarter prior.
However, their outlook was somewhat
muted. It slightly missed expectations,
but just want to point out Dollar
General had some pretty poor earnings
last week. They also had expectations
that didn't meet the bar of Wall Street
for these value seeking stores. So, some
of that might already be priced in.
Shares moving nearly 2%, John.
>> Dani, appreciate the update. Donnie,
thank you. Donnie Bergin, Matt Miller
coming up on Bloomberg TV in about 30
minutes time to guide you into the open
and balance account for that a little
bit later. Traders are awaiting this
week's Fed rate decision. It's just
around the corner. The Central Bank
widely expected to keep interest rates
on hold. Bloomberg's Enda Curran joins
us now for more. Enda, we talk about
that three four part act. Let's park the
politics and focus on the three. A
statement, a news conference, the
projections. What are you and the team
focused on down in Washington?
So, the real action is going to be this
could be the first time we get to hear
from the Fed John in terms of their
response to the war and the the oil
shock. As you mentioned, no change to
policy expected, but they're going to
put out new forecasts that are expected
to show an increase in their outlook for
inflation. That will be interesting and
at the same time they're going to nudge
down or expected to nudge down their
outlook for growth. So, then when you
consider the fact that we're at that
point where hawks are really in control
of the FOMC committee at the moment,
those ones who are more worried about
inflation than anything else. When you
consider that weak February employment
number and the fact that there those
warning $100 a barrel oil will
eventually
once you look through it become a tax on
consumers and business and will impact
growth, then I think what we could see
on Wednesday is a start or the beginning
of the Fed debate around how will they
respond to that around oil shock and
will it ultimately result in rate cuts
and will they of course start to use the
word transitory again. Enda, do we have
an appreciation for where inflation is
right now? And the reason I raise that
question is because many people in the
economics industry were looking at the
PCE data on Friday into the weekend and
we're focused on the methodology that
was used for certain indicators, certain
readings on things like legal fees.
What's your takeaway of what's going on
at the moment?
I think look, inflation remains above
the Fed's target and it's certainly a
core PCE or their own preferred gauge is
still beyond you know, their comfort
zone. But John, it's broadly what I'll
say stable perhaps. By component,
there's certainly different signals
being given off. Uh for example, the
goods sector we saw in those numbers
last week, the inflation story there is
still somewhat mixed, but the service
side of things, you look at the
insurance sector, you look at
periodically costing to education
tuition, health care and the like,
there's clearly parts of the economy
where inflation is real, sticky, and and
persistent. And that's why the hawks on
the FOMC are in control at the moment,
and that's why we had several at the
last Fed meeting warning that at some
point they may need to start talking
about hikes.
>> Now, I I think this Iran shock might put
a different hue under debate at the Fed.
I'm not necessarily sure if the Fed will
be talking about hikes near term. It's
probably going to be more of a story of
looking through that, but there's no
doubt about it in terms of the Fed
getting back to its inflation target. I
mean, that remains a long way off for
now. And it's good to see you and the
current down in Washington. Appreciate
your time, sir. David Sief there of
Nomura weighing in on the Fed's path
forward, writing this, "We continue to
expect two cuts in June and September
under Chair nominee Warsh. We do not
think that the Iran conflict
significantly lowers the likelihood of
Fed rate cuts." A man who knows who
Kevin Warsh is, David Jones is now from
Nomura. David, good morning. Good
morning. I'm sure you'll let that joke
slide. It's good to see you. Let's talk
about what you're expecting from this
chairman, Chairman Powell, in his
penultimate meeting, I believe, on
Wednesday. Yeah, well, you know, we're
certainly not expecting any change from
from the Fed, and I think that at this
meeting. And I think I think Chair
Powell has to continue to to reflect the
entire committee as he does at every at
every press conference. And so,
really separate from what's going on in
Iran, there has been um
I would say a change in Fed rhetoric,
not from the the core of the committee
like Powell, but from some of the some
members of the committee who have gotten
a little bit more hawkish. So, we might
see Powell reflect that. Um at the same
time, we had an 11-to-1 decision um
with only one dovish descent at the
January meeting. We could easily see
this as a 9-to-3, which is our base case
with three dovish dissent. So, Myra and
this time joined by Bowman and Waller,
all three of them dissenting. So,
the decision itself could actually be
seen as as dovish with three people
voting for a cut instead of just one
with with the press conference a little
bit more hawkish. When it comes to Iran,
though, we really just don't see this
having a big impact on Fed policy at
this point. So, sure, the statement will
of course acknowledge geopolitical risk.
It might not use the word Iran, but we
really just don't think this is actually
that major for the Fed despite changes
in market pricing.
>> At this point, how much is that phrase
doing some heavy lifting? You know, it's
not doing as much heavy lifting as you
might think. I think that the Fed will
have to increasingly acknowledge the
two-sided risk from this, but the
important thing is that it's two-sided
risk. So, yes,
um
this has raised oil prices. It will
probably raise headline inflation, but
the Fed really focuses in on core
inflation, and that's really important
here. And so, we really just don't see a
huge amount of pass-through from this
sort of headline inflation rise, which
is really oil-focused, into core
inflation. And so, we look we we look to
the Fed to to probably
look through this. I think it would take
a lot longer of a conflict,
significantly more than the say
additional month that that markets are
thinking before the Fed really has to
consider this. And it's not even clear
that its response would be to be more
hawkish
as is being priced in. That's right.
Even stripping this conflict out,
looking at core inflation, it's actually
inflecting upward so far this year, and
you're seeing a lot of services and
goods that have actually been getting
expensive at a faster pace. How can they
really reject that? Well, there's no
question that we've been seeing some
elements of super core inflation start
to to creep up a little bit. And that
has again nothing to do with the Iran
war. I think that is why you've been
seeing, as I was talking about before,
some members of the FOMC become a little
bit more hawkish. And and and Powell may
have to reflect this. It's not really
clear that he himself uh feels that way.
But again, um you know, we're we're
we're at the cusp of a a major change in
in Fed leadership, one that we think is
going to bring uh more dovishness to it.
And so, even if a Powell-led Fed were
were were Powell to remain as chair for
say another couple of years, even if
that was something that was likely to
get more hawkish outside of the uh the
effect of the Iran war, it's really not
clear that that that uh Chair Warsh,
once he's confirmed, is uh is going to
be on board with that at all. Can we go
down a little rabbit hole with our PCE?
There was a huge debate over the weekend
about a key aspect of core PCE that was
changed without disclosing it. Uh legal
services. Yeah. If they hadn't changed
the methodology, that would have been up
more than 11%. Instead, it was up less
than 1%, which seriously skewed the
entire data, which normally is
completely predictable based in the
other inputs.
Is this a political act by the BEA? Is
this How do you How do you take this and
and understand it in the framework of
whether some of these numbers are
legitimate?
>> Yeah, I I I'll tell you, it does seem
like the BEA sort of changed horses in
midstream here. And and and usually we,
along with with many other forecasters,
are extremely accurate. Almost everybody
was off by a full 10 basis points, which
is a big miss um on this. And it was
essentially 100% due to this legal
services uh uh fee change. And it was
just a matter of Usually it's taken from
the CPI um when it goes into PCE. And
this time it was taken from the PPI.
There was no advance warning given on
that. And that made a big difference
here. Um I think I think some criticism
is is uh pretty justified. I can't say
whether it was political or not. I will
say in the BEA's defense that the BEA
does have more discretion than uh the
BLS, which comes up with the the CPI and
PPI numbers, to to these sort of
methodological changes. And had it made
this change where it didn't matter so
much, I think there would have been a
little bit of people shrugging their
shoulders. I think what what is leading
to this debate and criticism, which I
think is at least somewhat fair, is that
they made this change right when it
mattered the most. And, you know, it is
what it is. I don't I don't think
there's any
any way to sort of sugarcoat that that
is what happened.
>> Timing isn't great. Let's finish on the
calendar. The chairman of the Federal
Reserve, Jay Powell, March 18th, April
29th, then he should be done. Yes. What
are the prospects of him hanging around?
Um I I I
I think it's there's really three
options here. One is does he leave
immediately? Two, does he wait out the
midterms and see whether he can
you know, if the Democrats win the
Senate, he might be able to resign after
a few months and prevent Trump from at
least nominating a successor and leave
the seat vacant indefinitely or force a
compromise candidate or stay around
forever. I don't think he's going to
stay around for the rest of his term,
which would be until 2028, but I do
think that as Democratic prospects of
taking the Senate rise, it does make it
a increasingly attractive for him to at
least take a look at and see how
November goes.
>> politics, doesn't it?
>> It does scream politics. Uh Is he a
political beast? I I think that Powell
avoided politics for quite some time as
much as he possibly could. And it was
really a sea change what happened on
January 11th with his response to the
subpoenas, which do not appear to be
going away anytime soon.
It does appear that he has
based some of his statements
>> because those pieces of information,
your view is important.
You just said you don't think the
subpoenas are going away, one. There's a
prospect that Powell stays until
November, two. Doesn't that raise a
question about the future of
Warsh's nominee nomination?
>> The subpoenas did not go away despite
the the ruling from the the district
court. I do not think that they will be
a constraint to Warsh being in in
practice towards being confirmed. I
think they will be withdrawn if
necessary in order to make sure that
that Warsh is confirmed in time for him
to be on there for the the June meeting.
So basically you think Thune at some
point stops the investigation because
Senator Tillis has been very Yes.
emphatic that he will not go ahead
unless the investigation to the Fed is
dropped.
>> Tillis is is likely credible. There are
ways around that in the Senate. I don't
think that Thune would necessarily use
them. So yes, I mean I think that the
they will they will keep this
investigation going as long as they can,
but will ultimately withdraw it or end
it in time to to make sure that Warsh is
confirmed for the June meeting. Okay.
David, good to see you. Thanks for
joining. Goodbye. David Seif of Nomura
on what could be a messy summer for the
Federal Reserve. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Yohara has more. Hey Yohara. Hi
[music] John.
Iran launching fresh attacks across the
Persian Gulf as the war enters its third
week. The UAE and Saudi Arabia reporting
drone and missile attacks overnight with
the key Fujairah export terminal
suffering another hit. The repeated
strikes have led to the [music] UAE
cutting its oil production by nearly
half since the war began.
Elsewhere, Meta is planning layoffs that
could affect at least 20% of the
company. Reuters reporting that top
executives have signal signaled the
plans to other senior leaders at Meta.
>> [music]
>> No dates for the cuts has been set and
the scale of the layoffs has not been
finalized. The cuts are aimed at
offsetting costly investments in AI
infrastructure.
And a top Apollo executive is sounding
off on quote the arrogance in private
markets. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the firm's co-president of its
asset management arm blaming the media
for creating a frenzy around private
credit. John Zito saying quote obviously
we're in the middle of a private credit
party apparently. If you do credit well,
it's supposed to be pretty boring.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Yohara, appreciate the update. Thanks
for this morning. Thank you. Up next on
the program, setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, we'll touch base with
Barbara Reinhart of Voya Investment
Management as the conflict in the Middle
East whipsaws equities. Equities this
morning up by 1% from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
It's crazy to me that you see all these
narratives being written that central
banks are going to tighten into this. I
I think central banks have learned along
the way you don't tighten into energy
shocks.
>> [snorts]
>> I think if anything, you know, if this
gets worse than people anticipate, we
should be talking about more cuts, not
less cuts down the line.
>> You hope they've learned along the way.
As I imagine what Chris Varvares at
Strategas was meant to say a little bit
earlier when he spoke to us earlier on
this morning. Equities are doing better
this morning on the S&P 500 firmer by 1%
on the Nasdaq up by 1.1 on the Russell
up by 1.3. Two pillars of support this
morning, one is a shaky one. We'll talk
about it now. Brent and WTI. Brent crude
off the highs from overnight. 102 at the
moment and down 1%. [music] WTI breaking
95 now. We're down by about 3.9%. That
is a fragile pillar of support because
that can change any second,
>> [music]
>> any moment. The tone out of the talks
over the weekend which is China and the
US constructive even if, as the press
secretary suggested just moments ago,
Caroline Levitt, that meeting between
Trump and Xi might be delayed. China and
the US agreed to stable trade ties that
benefit the world. The readout of that
meeting coming from the Chinese side
just moments ago.
>> So basically the Chinese side is saying
this detente, we want it to last and we
want a working relationship with the
United States. What's interesting about
this meeting though is I actually long
thought the second Trump had these
strikes in Iran the meeting would be
delayed. Because the Chinese like
everything to be done [music] ahead of
time. And this is the first real meeting
we've seen before that meeting is set to
take place in just two weeks time. So
[music] a lot of the deliverables aren't
yet on the table and Trump is now solely
focused on trying to reopen the Strait
of Hormuz.
>> And that is a major focus not just for
him but for everybody else as well. As
we count you down to the opening bell
this is a trading diary for the week
ahead. At 2:00 p.m. Eastern time the Fed
CEO Jensen Huang speaking at the
company's AI conference. Look out for
that. Look out for this too. 3:30
Eastern time the president and vice
president J.D. Vance speaking to the
press. The vice president's been fairly
quiet recently. His thoughts hopefully
on the war coming up a little bit later.
>> [music]
>> On Wednesday PPI data plus a Fed rate
decision with chairman Powell. On
Thursday rate decisions from the BOJ ECB
and BOE plus another read on the labor
market jobless claims just around the
corner. Barbara Reinhardt of Voya
Investment Management writes this about
the market. There is a real risk of a
whipsaw in equities because of the news
related nature of the war and this is
clearly a highly uncertain time for
investors to make any major bets.
Barbara joins us now for more. Barbara
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Our capacity to absorb
shocks with a stock market just 5% away
from all-time highs. Is there a cushion
there?
The valuation cushion certainly isn't
there but the fundamentals going into
this war were actually quite good.
Right? You had wage inflation was coming
down pretty dramatically. You were close
to the Fed's target on uh core personal
consumption expenditures or or getting
there. So the fundamentals were were
great and you also had very good earning
support. So going into this it's very
different than it was in 2022 when you
had uh you know inflation was rampant.
PCE at the time was over 5 and 1/2%.
Wage inflation was spiraling and you had
a Fed that had to be very aggressive.
Turning into this one you had a easing
of monetary policy. You had fiscal
support and you had very strong
earnings. So, it's a very different
place than we were in 2022. It seems
like no one's really worried about a
massive drawdown. They're all worried
about missing out on the upswing when
you do get some sort of resolution to
this. Would you say that's accurate?
Well, I there's been a lot of
nervousness underneath the market. While
maybe the S&P is only about 4 and 1/2%
off of its all-time high, the internals
of the market have been very weak,
right? Liquidity has been very low.
There's been a lot of
reduction in length and positions. And
also, if you think about where most of
the assets had gone in the first, you
know, 2 months of this year, into the
emerging markets and into Europe, those
markets are down closer to 10%. So, we
see that there's been some relative
weakness. Some of our short-term
sentiment indicators are oversold, but
they're not looking at capitulation yet,
where you would say shut your eyes and
buy. The thing to do at this point for
our from our view of Voyer
is that when you have an initial surge
in oil prices, bond yields generally get
dragged up with it. We do not think that
any central bank is going to be hiking
into this. This is a supply shock, not
necessarily a demand shock. So, if you
want to do something in your portfolio,
it's probably buying some duration at
this point would be a very good bet.
That's what we've been hearing for a
number of guests so far this morning. Is
that because there is an expectation
that growth will have to slow, or is it
just simply capitalizing on the wrong
way bets that people are making, which
seems to make sense in the short run,
but never does in the long run? Well, I
think there's two things. Number one,
no central bank is going to be hiking
into this, right? This is a supply shock
that consumers are going to be feeling
in their purses, and bond yields get
brought down because consumption starts
to slow. More of your pocketbook has to
get spent on energy and gasoline prices.
That, of course, is going to slow
inflation pretty dramatically, and
that's why bond yields are likely to
fall off of this. What kind of levels in
WTI, Brent, or gasoline do you predict
potentially mean this is would actually
impact growth and impact consumers. In
order for it to really hurt the US in a
significant way, you would probably need
to see Brent somewhere around, excuse
me, WTI somewhere around $140 a barrel
for a pretty long period of time, like 2
to 3 months, in order for it to really
hit the US economy very hard. If the
bond market's a buy, energy stocks are
style.
Oh, so it look at the bond market's a
buy, you know, it's the unfortunately
it's the news related nature of this.
You know, you could if you're selling
equities today, there's a real chance
you could get whipsawed on something
that
>> directions. Yeah, exactly, that the
streets suddenly open up or they
suddenly end up shutting down again. So,
I think if you're going to look at this
for a longer term time period like we do
when we're investing for retirement, you
try to invest through these political
shocks and if you can get a
capitulation oversold environment,
that's when you would potentially start
to add. Have we seen that capitulation
yet, do you think? I don't think you've
seen it necessarily in the US. If you
were to get another 10% drawdown from
here or even maybe another five to five
and a half, you might start to see it.
We look at things like AAII Bull Bear,
we look at the put-call ratio, we also
have weekly sentiment indicators and
also our own homemade ones.
You haven't seen capitulation, you've
seen distress, you've seen low liquidity
levels, uh but you haven't seen it where
you would say shut your eyes and buy.
Now, Seana, this morning gave us palm
market to see you. Thanks for being
here. Thank you. Bob Runholt there for
you in investment management. Equities
this morning higher by 0.9% on the S&P
500. A lot can change between now and
tomorrow morning. In the meantime, crude
is lower by 3.5% 95 on WTI, Brent at
102. Coming up tomorrow, Julian Emanuel
of Evercore, Bob McNally of Rapidan
Energy, Liz Ann Sanders of Charles
Schwab, and Lisa Hornby of Schroders.
Monday morning and some of you wishing
for Friday already. From New York City
this morning, good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.